From Zero to Cloud Engineer in 6 monthsso i've been in tech since 2014 help
desk sysadmin cloud engineer training
architect and now a cloud advocate at
microsoft i don't have a college degree
but i do have experience and this is
exactly how i would learn to become a
cloud engineer in 2022 i think there are
four phases linux and networking
programming cloud platform and devops
practices if you are completely new to
tech in general but you spend every
single day studying and you really grind
it out i do believe that you could gain
the entire skill set that you need to go
from zero to a junior cloud engineer
skill set in about six months to a year
depends on how much time you put into it
for each phase i'm going to tell you why
it matters some resources that i've used
that i would recommend some tasks you
should be able to accomplish and maybe
some project ideas the order of phases
that i told you is the one that i would
follow and if you prefer text you can go
to learn to cloud.guide which is a guide
i put together it's free it's open
source available on github with a couple
of other friends and it's just based on
our experience learning cloud and
there's a lot more sort of content and
guide info there than i could cover in
this video uh but yeah with all that
being said hi i'm gps and welcome to a
new video phase one linux and networking
the reason i put these two together is
because the cloud is just a bunch of
linux servers that are networked
together so obviously having a
foundation in both of those topics is
pretty crucial now individually they are
careers and specialties entirely on
their own so you're not expected to
become a professional in either one or
both right just you know gaining a fun
foundational knowledge is fantastic and
becoming comfortable with a command
command line terminal things like that
it's all what linux administration is
and a lot of networking tasks are also
accomplished via commands so you get
sort of your best of both worlds when
you become comfortable with the command
line and moving into programming moving
into
the cloud platform section moving into
devops practices all of those are going
to use commands to accomplish tasks so
if you sort of start with it you're
going to set yourself up for success
commands like you know cd command to
change directories ls command to list
things you know create files copy files
move files with make deer copy remove
touch you know find things with a locate
where is which find um understanding how
to get more help on commands that you're
using with the man man pages and the
like help commands um being familiar
with how to view logs in the like var
log directory and how to display the
content of files with cat less more tail
using grep using set to filter your
output
how to use pipelines with the pipe
operator how to put pipelines together
with the pipe operator
how to use nano and vam to manipulate
files how to install packages how to
take a look at processes that uses
processes on your server
with uh what's like ps top nice kill
these are commands
um there's a couple of other things uh
i'll sort of like pause here and you can
take a look at what things that i
usually recommend
um but my absolute favorite resource for
learning linux was is this book called
linux basic for hackers specifically the
first 11 chapters i have blog posts
around this content that i learned as
well on madebygps.com so you can go to
the linux tab you can take a look there
but the first 11 chapters of that book
fantastic it's such an engaging way to
learn it is focused a little bit more on
tasks that are security related but
trust me you're going to learn
everything that you need to learn in
terms of becoming comfortable with linux
for networking there's this course
called i think it's called computer
networking course on free code camp it
is about 10 hours long but if you like
to exit or one and a half um you'll get
through it obviously quicker and there
is a lot of information there it could
be a little overwhelming but if you
spread your time over uh you know like a
couple of weeks you'll learn a lot there
concepts that are important for cloud is
you know understanding how to put
together virtual networks and how to
organize your network with subnets and
and
using private ip addresses public iep
addresses uh different sort of ways of
setting up networks things like that
which you'll learn when you go through
this course
i think the free codecam course is free
i think actually it is free it's on
youtube and then the book is not free
but it's relatively inexpensive in my
opinion with um
in terms of like how much content is
actually in that stuff right
so some project ideas that you could do
is
the most obvious and the first one you
should definitely do is install linux on
a vm you can use something like
virtualbox
or install it on maybe a spare computer
or something like that
if you need help picking a distro i
recommend pop os i love pop os
but you could pick anything out there
right and try you could also try
deploying your own cloud there's this
thing called next cloud
i recently did it for myself it's pretty
great it's like an alternative to stuff
like google drive onedrive and things
like that
and you can deploy that on your own
computer and your own vm give that a try
you'd also try deploying your own nas
server with freenas
there's like so many fun things that you
can do in terms of linux and networking
realms so give those a try also the book
and the course
the book and the video course i
recommend will also have some project
ideas to go through those as well all
right let's move on to phase two
programming
alrighty so when it comes to cloud there
are actually full
roles that are dedicated dedicated
dedicated 100 to cloud development where
you will be building full-on
applications
and you will need to understand how to
program absolutely everything but when
it comes to cloud engineering cloud
administration
you will be utilizing code but more in
the context of automating your tasks and
sort of building scripts
and eventually building like
infrastructure as code to
deploy your stuff to the cloud now this
doesn't mean that you don't need to
learn to program i personally believe
that if you pick up a language like
python and understand your basics like
variables functions um you know when to
use arrays lists dictionaries basic data
types uh strings booleans things like
that iterations for loops um
even things like understanding uh how to
test your code and why it's important
and then some like uh object oriented
programming concepts so like your
fundamentals when you're learning any
programming language
will highly highly benefit you now you
don't need to go
more in depth into into those things but
you know
on a pick up a learn to python course
there are so many python books out there
i think they're a few that i can name is
um like a python crash course book an
introduction to oh no automate the
boring with python is also a fantastic
book free code camp has also a learn
python course
now i personally don't use python but it
is a very beginner friendly language and
it's used so much a lot of the job
listings out there ask for python skills
so as a beginner i would recommend that
for you and there's a lot of community
there's a lot of content out there too
again once you learn the fundamentals
sort of translating that into another
language if you need to pick up another
language will be a lot easier
but as a beginner go for python okay now
one thing i wanted to add is
uh in the previous step you would have
been introduced to bash scripting bash
is almost like a universal programming
language
almost every single linux server that
you're going to deploy up deploy out
there will have bash available without
having to install and there's no other
language out there that has that same
capability right
so becoming familiar with you know using
commands and putting together in a bash
script and writing bash groups is also
very powerful right um there are other
things that you could learn like
powershell you know bash powershell
python i know go is very popular uh rust
and all these kinds of things but again
i want you to focus on being a beginner
and utilizing community content all to
your favor because when you're getting
started you're going to be overwhelmed
right
so that's why i recommend python in
terms of projects all the resources that
i've mentioned will have projects for
you to do
so just lean into those you could also
do things like i don't know create like
a score tracker where you type in the
name you make like a command line
program with python type in the name of
a team it'll give you like the um scores
like the last game that that team played
the score of that game uh do make sure
you create a github profile and create a
readme where you just introduce yourself
um just you know google what that means
uh github profile is where you're going
to showcase all of the things that you
create and a readme is the space that
you get to sort of describe or provide
information into what that project is
set itself up set that self set yourself
up for success by creating one of those
um and yeah i think that's it for this
phase now let's move into phase number
three cloud platform all right and you
might be thinking like hey i want to
learn to become a cloud engineer but
like in your sort of list of phases
cloud platform is the third one again
i'm telling you i'm trying to set you up
for success and there's some sort of
prerequisites and skills that throughout
the rest of your career in cloud are
going to be very very crucial so that's
why linux and networking and programming
are before cloud platform now i
personally think that the best way to
pick up a cloud platform and learn one
as a complete beginner is studying for a
certification because that guided
learning that sort of you know every
certification has sort of a curriculum
that you need to be able to know before
you take it and that guided learning is
crucial crucial crucial at the beginning
once you're more familiar once you have
one under your belt i think then you can
start to like just do more like hands-on
and more projects and things like that
and you couldn't get you could get
another certification you could get more
like a specialized certification or
whatever um but i think for those first
steps just really studying for
one certification for whichever cloud
you want to do
will probably be your best like your
best bet there's this project called the
cloud resume challenge and it's
the majority of people have completed it
using aws
services i have my own flavor of that
challenge called the azure resume
challenge and there will be links to
these projects in the description as
well
and that will get you hands-on with a
bunch of azure cloud services the cloud
resume challenge will get you hands-on
with the lot of aws ones and i think
there's even a gcp one out there i'm not
a hundred percent sure but in terms of
which cloud to pick no matter which one
you pick go do the cloud resume
challenge you're gonna get hands on with
a bunch of things out there you're gonna
learn a lot right
uh in terms of learning a cloud and like
i guess let's address that which one
should i learn
aws gcp or azure pick one of those
if you still can't decide to pick one
that it has like the most amount of jobs
in your area for the majority of people
it's probably going to be aws for me
personally was azure which is why i
learned azure and it worked out because
now i work at microsoft right if you
still can't pick i would recommend azure
because then you can watch a bunch of my
content i put out azure content every
single week i do a lot of live streams
with the microsoft reactor on a bunch of
different azure technologies um so i
personally can you know provide help
that's why i would say like oh learn
azure but i think you can't go wrong
with either you know aws gcp or azure a
lot of people ask me like hey there
there are these plot plot these paid
cloud platforms out there that are like
educational platforms that you can pay
like a monthly fee or yearly fee and
they give you like courses but also like
labs and stuff like that it's up to you
if you want to use that i remember when
i was getting started i had access to
linux academy but my employer was paying
for it i don't think i would have paid
for it on my own because it was pretty
expensive and i was like really poor
back then
but maybe it's something that you can
get your employer to pay for uh also
each cloud platform is going to have
like a free trial and free credits that
you get when you sign up so absolutely
you know give that a try
uh and make sure you whenever you sort
of create something in cloud in the in
your cloud environment that you delete
it once you're done if not you're gonna
rack up some bills i have videos on my
channel on how to set up alerts mistakes
that i've made a bunch of other things
so go take a look at that
things that you should be familiar with
at the end of this phase is just an
understanding of best practices for
cloud infrastructure reliability
performance efficiency and understanding
i'm not expecting you to like
fully build on full solutions that
implement all these things you know
identity how to grant access and provoke
access to different users and
applications uh how to set up billing
alerts and emails and things like that
and budgets
how to use object storage so in
i'd be s3 in azure would be blob storage
i'm not sure what it's called in gcp
um how to deploy virtual machines or
virtual machine scale sets you know
virtual machines that scale
how to work with networking so how to
set up a v-net how to set up
subnets private ip addresses things like
that inside of whichever cloud platform
you pick
uh how do you can create a i would say
serverless uh http api this might sound
very confusing but as you get into more
of the cloud space and if you work with
the cloud resume challenge or the azure
resume challenge you become very
familiar with this but i think uh you
know becoming familiar with this concept
of serverless in terms of cloud
is going to be very very beneficial
uh and obviously how to use the cli
clies are command line interface tools
that you can use to
deploy stuff or work with your cloud
environment when you're getting started
you're going to want to use a lot of
like the portal so you go to the website
and you click around but that takes a
lot a lot of time and when you're
actually working in cloud you're
expected to be able to manage all these
things or do all these things via a
command so becoming familiar with the
azure cli or the aws cli i'm not 100
sure what they are called
so for everything that you can do in the
gui make sure you're able to you know
how to use that command in your terminal
as well i have a bunch of azure cli
videos that i did over the pa or live
streams that i did over the past month
or two
i have actually have them in english and
spanish if you speak spanish so go check
those out
uh and yeah i think yeah so get a
certification do the resume challenge
and really just get hands-on and make
sure you erase everything that you don't
need in your cloud environment take
advantage of the free accounts the free
trials or free credits
and get hands-on with cloud all right
now the last phase would be phase four
devops practices oh one thing i forgot
to mention for the previous phase is
learning content or learning resources i
think each platform i know microsoft has
microsoft learn and there is just so
much free content out there if you go if
you sort of google search the microsoft
azure certification that you're
interested in and find the official
microsoft page and if you scroll down
you're going to see it gives you all the
online free content that we have
available for that that's the content
that i would recommend you can go for
paid courses if you want i don't
personally have any ones to recommend i
know aws has something similar as well
and so does gcp
so there's a bunch of free content out
there that you can use phase four devops
practices now you're going to be
introduced to a lot of these as you go
through phase
like
one two and three all of them actually
you get introduced to infrastructure as
code and cicd which is continuous
integration and continuous deployment in
phase three when you're learning a cloud
platform and you're doing something like
the cloud resume challenge or the azure
resume challenge or you're doing both
right you're introduced to version
control git and github in phase two the
programming and things like that right
so
a lot of phase four i believe would be
just you know read up a little bit more
on these things understand more of the
theory if you want to get a
certification go ahead but yeah focus on
version control infrastructure as code
and ci cd and make sure for every single
project that you've implemented
to have all these things going for those
projects as well now if you deploy
something in phase one for example a
i don't know a free nas
uh server or a nex cloud server try to
also deploy those with something like
terraform and then you don't really have
to like deploy it and just keep it going
you could also just get rid of it too
but yeah getting familiar with
infrastructure as code because when
you're working in production and actual
as a professional you're not going to be
manually deploying things you'll be
using code to describe what you're going
to be deploying right so just get
hands-on with that
and i think that is absolutely it for
for these four phases
now you might be overwhelmed right now
there is a lot to learn and that's just
the reality i've tried to put this in
sort of a learning plath or guideline or
timeline things like that that makes the
most sense but feel free to you know
explore whatever you want at any phase
anything you want really
there are so many new services new cloud
services new technologies that come out
every single day it's impossible to keep
up with all of them there are new
languages all the time you can't keep up
with all of them just embrace that right
i have no idea about a lot of things and
yet i'm working in this space like i
told you in how to become a cloud
engineer in 2020 it isn't necessarily
about understanding the new latest and
greatest tool it's about understanding
your fundamentals and all those skills
will translate into whatever you need to
pick up right
much luck to you please feel free to
reach out to me on twitter instagram
linkedin or leave a comment here and i
will do my absolute best to address any
question check out learn2cloud.guide
we're we're turning it into a full-on
web app that's always going to be free
always open source
that's going to help you sort of
with this guide and also have some
hands-on project ideas so you can make
sure you follow us on twitter and
that'll be launching sometime next year
or early next year right uh but yeah
much luck to you it is the end of the
year
so i wish you a happy new years and
let's get to learning or i don't know
something corny like that
i'll see you in the next video