The Solution Architect Role Confuses Me!so I'm about a year and a half into my
career and usually I guess historically
if you look back at my career
progression around this time is where I
make a move either in roles in companies
or in both now I know I want to stick to
Microsoft so I don't want to switch
companies so 50 of that decision has
been made so now my focus has been more
so around okay what's my next move I
made the mistake of sort of universally
targeting the solution architect role
and I even tweeted this out I'll add a
screenshot here like I'm focusing on
sugar solution architect or I'm
targeting position architect after my
time in advocacy got a couple of replies
and one really stuck out to me and
really helped me understand sort of the
I guess mistakes or confusion that I
have around sort of blatantly just
saying like oh Target solution architect
um I also posted this on on Instagram
and I got another reply which also gave
me good insight into this too and I want
to kind of share this because I feel
like oftentimes beginners or people who
are trying to make moves into the space
or move up in the space we tend to
fixate on roles like devops Engineers
the same everywhere Cloud engineer is
the same everywhere switching Architects
is the same everywhere and in reality
that's not the truth and given that I
have a couple of years in the field I
still got Bamboozled well I'm pretty
sure that could happen to anyone so kind
of just wanted to share my insight here
now the first reply that stuck out to me
was by Linda Nichols Linda Nichols is
someone that I have a lot of respect for
uh he started a career in help desk
wrote the help desk ticketing system
software that's how she learned how to
code later went on to get a computer
science degree was one of the first
women in serverless back in like the
early 2010s
um and someone who works as a global
black belt in Microsoft meeting has a
great level of knowledge in a technical
technological category and then goes and
implements the solutions and helps build
out Solutions with customers in that
space and I even have a full interview
with her so check it out just overall
someone that I've known about for a
couple of years and someone who also has
insight into the work that I do into the
things that I enjoy and could
potentially give like some good advice
given that she has context about me we
had a conversation after she replied to
my tweet saying like hey I have some
thoughts let's talk about this we had a
conversation and overall she just gave
me a better feel of like a view of of
how the shark that could be different
based on teams based on organizations
based on company days and there are some
sushaktak roles that are very sales
based very pre-sales based very quota
based or just something I don't have any
interest in and there are some that are
really focused on implementing which is
something that I do have interest in but
more so just saying like hey I want to
be a solution architect might not be the
best way to get into things because
you're really kind of just not preparing
for anything specific and when you want
to go Target your next role you really
do have to be specific because you got
to know what to upskill in so I really
appreciated her insight and her advice
and her mentorship on that and it's just
a good example of how having you know
the right people around you give you
some good advice and good first-hand
knowledge to experience can make an
impact on you so thank you Linda
the the next person that reached out to
me was someone who's actually a senior
Cloud social architect at Microsoft with
years of experience uh they didn't reply
publicly so I won't disclose any of that
information of course but we ended up
having a conversation we had a
conversation when I first started at
Microsoft
and after that we ended up having a
conversation after this reply uh to my
Instagram story and more so this person
just gave me insight into what they do
as a solution architect and I thought
this was so cool this is exactly what I
want to do and this was obviously a
different team and what they end up
doing is doing customer engagements for
a certain amount of time a couple of
weeks or something like that you onboard
you learn to Tech stack you use that
Tech stack that the customer uses to
implement the solution and then you go
on we offboard do the documentation and
you go on to your next customer
engagement and that next customer
engagement could be completely different
Tech stack now what I love about
advocacy which is the space that I'm
currently in is just the dynamic nature
of it you could be working on something
for a month two months and the following
months it could be something completely
different I like trying new things given
that the cloud space has so many
different fields I just really like
getting a little bit of a taste of all
the areas and I truly do believe that if
I was in a role where I had to do the
same like use the same stuff for like a
really long time work on the same thing
for a really long time it's just not
somewhere where I could shine
which is why I do like the nature of
architecture in general because you're
going to go build out things that are
different solutions for different
customers which is something that I feel
like I really want to do so after
getting the inside with this second
colleague more so on how their team
works and how there's time to upskill to
learn the tech stack how you really rely
on your team your team player because
someone might be an expert in something
you might be the expert in a different
area I think that's really cool so then
I got a few for what that looks like
which I think was very very useful long
story short and the device that I have
here is reverse engineer right just
because you want to be in a specific
role it doesn't mean that you're going
to have to learn the exact same thing
for that role at every single company
yeah there might be some overlap in
general knowledge but overall there
might be something a little bit
different that you have to learn so be
sure to grab the job description reverse
engineer that too one thing I wanted to
add here is this is something that Lou
from open up the cloud brought up in one
of the videos that he did a couple
months ago and I'll link that in the
description is
there's the one of the most popular
certifications to get into cloud is the
AWS certified solution architect
associate and I feel like a lot of
people who get into these space uh via
that certification or sort of that's
their introduction to learning cloud or
sort of you know the first step that
they take into trying to figure out what
they want to do is they think that
because solution architect is in the
name of the certification that that's
the role that they have to Target
and also they feel like the what they're
studying in that role is what they're
exactly going to end up doing and that's
just not the truth right right so again
reverse engineer the the role grab the
job description and then that's pay
attention to what you're actually going
to work on versus the title itself I
need to take my own advice long story
short all right anyway uh let me know
are you a social architect what do you
do day to day is sales a very big part
of your role uh let me know in the
comments um also let me know what kind
of roles you're targeting I would love
to know people's career progressions
I'm still very much trying to figure out
what the next one thing the next thing
for me is the I think what is different
this time around than other times where
I've been trying to figure out my next
role is I'm very happy my current role
I'm still very much challenged I'm
compensated fairly I have a great team a
great manager so there's not like a lot
of pressure as to like I'm not it's not
that I'm not happy or anything like that
but progression is very important to me
so
we'll see we'll see what happens I hope
you learn something and I'll see in the
next video