From Food Industry to 6 figures In Tech feat. @KevtechITSupportcoaching this is Darius and the one
pokes me for today oh you do on the
weekend too yes
all right hold on I think we're actually
left we might be live like us up live
just
let me take a look which is fine so I
don't really like to make things yeah we
gotta be live like us up all right so we
got the chat open and all right you're
in the chat ready oh look at you what a
professional
all right uh yeah so we're well before
we dive too much into like questions and
whatnot
um we could just kind of like hang out
introduce
take some time to introduce yourself
because I know I've been knowing about
ucab for a while but I don't think we've
ever spoken like one on one
um
this is also an opportunity for me to
just to talk to you a little bit more
and then the cool thing is like you were
like you're telling me that you're
Ecuadorian which is crazy because I
didn't know that and I'm also equator
for those who don't know
um so Ecuadorian we live we both are in
New York we both are in Tech uh
kind of like similar role similar
backgrounds and now we're on this this
conversation kind of
uh talking to one not but yeah thanks
thanks for taking the time I know you're
a super busy guy
um yeah thank you but
yeah tell us tell the people a little
bit about you for those I'm sure a lot
of people are familiar with you but for
those who aren't give yourself a little
intro yeah definitely so um my name is
Kevin you call me Kevin foreign
on YouTube I am a um like my whole
background is crazy because I I don't
come from a traditional background you
know how some people they do like WGU or
they go to college or they do all the
other things yeah yeah exactly exactly I
don't do that so my background's a
little strange because I come from 12
Years of restaurant experience I have a
12 years of restaurant experience okay I
I um I went to a technical training
school which is actually in Brooklyn and
they do the CompTIA a plus stuff so I
did a plus training in there
um I also did four years in the NYPD so
I have worked for their NYPD for four
years in Brooklyn yeah Brooklyn area
Williamsburg area
um uh this is my background's a little
strange so I did the dead restaurant I
did it NYPD
um then I wanted to get into it because
I was always good with computers I just
didn't know how to get started in it
because I just didn't know anything
about it and
um I was a little frustrated also show a
little frustrated because I got a lot of
a lot of a lot of bad information like
oh we'll get that sir you should be good
after that you can get a job after that
which is not true yeah
um so I went to school I got my A-Plus
learned about the basics the
fundamentals of I.T
um and um that's how I got started nit
and then lo and behold I had I had one
of the hiring managers they came to the
school and they interviewed me and I was
also fixing computers for that school
while I was being well I was doing date
plus there and then uh going fast
forward I now worked for a fintech
company as senior desktop support and I
work a lot with Executives and sea level
folks I have a lot of a lot of executive
experience like I work I worked in a lot
of hedge funds and um yeah that's that's
pretty much it about me I mean a little
about the YouTube stuff all over the
place yeah you do you do a lot man and I
think you also I mean you teach you
don't teach just on YouTube like you
have sort of other like I know you do
courses too uh do you do any like uh
I guess physical School kind of stuff
teaching
virtual okay but like yeah for like
college institutions or anything like
that I guess more traditional
institutions because like YouTube is a
way of teaching but I don't consider it
a traditional institution
um but I know like day days like a
assistant at like a community college I
know like my friend rishab does like
some Community College stuff too I don't
know if you have any of that but I know
you're just you kind of do like a whole
bunch of things but the first thing I
want to ask you I'm probably going to be
all over all over the place with
questions but I'll talk to you about a
plus man because you and I I think have
different opinions on on a plus
I I don't have I don't hold a plus so I
should probably start by there
and I know you do and I know you talk
about it uh and I know you have sort of
like
a soft spot for it but talk to me a
little bit about like the importance of
a plus for your career and
how you speak about that certification
for other people who are trying to get
into Tech yeah so when uh I have a love
and hate relationship with CompTIA
because you're aware yeah yeah um the
reason why is because I'm extremely
biased I'm right in the middle when it
comes to a plus because you may need it
or you may not need it it really depends
on the company but it depends on the job
you're applying for because I I have
trained I have done training in
Australia I have done training in the
United States with a lot of students and
it really depends on on the job itself
and I have worked with a lot of people
so some people got jobs without having
the a plus just having home Labs some
people got jobs because they have a good
LinkedIn profile some people got jobs
because they just got a reference they
just knew somebody so it's like I'm like
very in the middle I'm not gonna be I'm
gonna be like oh go get that sir you
know because it doesn't work that way
because at the end of the day I've seen
people get jobs without having a search
so it's just like so hard for me to
answer that question because I know some
people benefit from from uh having the a
plus because some companies will will
require it there's a requirement for
that it's just like you gotta have it or
you can't work here kind of deal yeah
some companies are like that even
Security Plus for example is for
government jobs you need to have it so
it's just really it really depends on
the company I'm extremely biased like I
said I'm straight up in the middle but
for for the for the a plus stuff uh if
you're brand new I always recommend
reading it because if you know nothing
about computers like like I did when I
come from I come from fast food right so
I would always recommend reading the
book even if you don't even get to start
like read a book like you're gonna get
you the fundamentals right you'll be
well-rounded so I'd rather you be
well-rounded and you go and get another
position that's like mid-level or senior
level and then you'll understand what
the hell you're doing and you should
start breaking things so that's my
opinion on that so if let's say your job
doesn't require like the job you want to
go for doesn't require it
um do you feel like there's other people
in like besides people who have like no
I.T background do you feel like there's
anyone else who you think who should go
for that certification
I I for the for the eight like I said
for the a plus it's just like I'm always
gonna be in the middle because you may
not eat or you may you may need it or
may not need like I said I have a love
and hate relationship with with comptio
yeah I was supposed to go to Chicago
actually to speak over there but they uh
they they like me they don't like me so
do you keep it real no I think that
might be a good sign though I feel like
it's tough also because it's kind of
expensive isn't it yes it's very
expensive yeah for for
well I mean I know it covers like a lot
I remember buying an A plus book it was
like like super thick it had must have
been like over 500 600 pages and I never
took it um
but I was just like wow like this is
there's just like so much in there but
it certifications like that I think
compti in general like it's kind of more
expensive than like the certs that I'm
more familiar with are the cloud ones
and like if you think like an
introductory Cloud sir it's like 99
which is not it's not cheap but it's
it's less expensive than like these
comptio ones
um there might be like potentially a
little bit more
uh
uh like it's like better and honestly
better on a resume but maybe it sticks
out a little bit more than the a plus
but uh yeah I've always had like just
such an interest on like that the A Plus
network plus and Security Plus because
everyone calls that that like that
Trifecta yeah um and I never really
understood that but I I we can get more
into certain a little bit later and then
people please feel free to ask us
questions in the chat because I know
certifications are just like
it's a top tough conversation to have uh
because there's no right or wrong answer
but
um
I also feel like you you do this well
like I think you take the responsibility
of having a platform with like with
respect because I'll never see like
I don't think I've ever seen videos that
you've done where you're like oh you get
this certain you're gonna get six
figures but I did see a post you did the
other day where you were like I'm just
tired about these people telling you
that you can do like you can get just
this thing and in three months you'll be
six figures uh because I've had that
like same kind of frustration lately too
but so just wondering
um do you do you feel like lately if
you've come across people who think like
oh they just gotta do oh maybe they've
been told like oh do I just got to do
this and then I'm I'm into Tech like I'm
making those six figures
yeah I get I get frustrated because I
I've been in I.T for a while now and
there's a lot of like catch like quick
schemes there's a lot of like fake
people out there and I try to I tell
people to try to avoid them because I
have done I have worked with someone
that he took a he did a uh like a boot
camp
um and he paid twenty thousand dollars
for it he couldn't he couldn't get a job
after that yeah and then he he did what
I told him to do and he got a job
afterwards yeah and he didn't pay
anything well he just went on my YouTube
channel and that says I should have
taken your advice and then paid the
twenty thousand dollars doesn't make any
sense like just doesn't make any sense I
feel like the getting into Tech
like that framework that you you and I
sort of have like gone through and I
sort of is what I continue to encourage
is you know get yourself like a support
role very entry level friendly
um and then kind of grind that out for a
year year and a half which I believe is
more than enough for you to go and kind
of figure out what you want to do next
and go like apply and whatnot and then
kind of just move up the ladder now as
you move up the ladder you can become
more Niche and you know specialize and
whatnot but you got to start somewhere
and I think that's something that
anybody who wants to could could do
really like because that can you know
obviously you're gonna have to continue
working your entire career towards like
where you really want to go to but that
first role that support rule I feel like
that's anything something anyone could
do I don't know your thoughts on that
yeah I think for me is like I think
that's because I'm known for making help
desk videos like crazy so like I'm known
for that but yeah for me it's just like
help desk is so underrated like people
heck yeah people think that you're not
doing a lot of stuff when you are you're
doing active directory Office 365 you're
doing password reset you're setting up
new hires terminations PC moves
migrations you're doing a lot of stuff
it's not just one thing so all those
skills that you get just from being in
help desk even depends on the the level
will help this too because there are
different levels of tier one tier two
tier three so you could actually do some
security responsibility or you could do
some networking responsibility as well
or you could do Cloud responsibility as
well because I have worked with someone
that works help desk and he's doing
Azure ID connect so it really depends on
the company that you're working for for
help that so help desk is so it's so
underrated like it really depends on the
company it really depends where you work
but it gives you a well-round
fundamental knowledge so I definitely
will always tell someone to do help this
even if they hate it I know people hate
help desk but I don't
I I feel I mean because there's an
aspect of customer service in it
you know just like retail jobs just like
it being in like the food industry like
you know because you deal with people
and ultimately people are the ones that
make it difficult but the role itself
like
if if my help the scroll I didn't have
to put up with customers I think I
probably would have enjoyed it a lot
more it's the people that make it kind
of difficult but you're right there's I
think especially with like the
onboarding off-boarding processes
there's a lot of automation that you can
introduce and you can learn especially
given that stuff like the majority of
that is with um active directory in
which now a lot of companies are using
Azure so there's like there's even Some
Cloud exposure that early on but a lot
of people want to skip it and the other
day like dude you were you were showing
me this and I was just so I was shocked
you were telling me that there were
sometimes are like gigs in New York that
are like oh paying 150 000 for Help Desk
and I was like what
150 000 if you're like if you're like a
single person no kids you're you're
living a great life with that seller
even even if you're in like the city
you're living good with that kind of
money so it's not like you're going to
be paid like absolutely I mean you know
there's variations there and went up but
yeah I tell people to not skip help desk
either because you learn a lot but
especially like
documentation
um ticketing systems it's pretty
important troubleshooting Under Pressure
uh you get a lot of like scenario
feedback scenarios that you can use in
interviewing and whatnot
um but and whatnot someone someone wants
to know your opinion on the TR the
trifecta that ape that that CompTIA
Trifecta what's your opinion on that
but like I like I always say it really
it really depends on the company and if
the company could pay for it there's
more power to you I'm not wasting a lot
of money on service and the thing with
me is I'm very it's very hard for me to
answer that question because I I know
people that I have worked with that only
have maybe one or two shirts and that's
it and they make a lot of money because
they they they got they just learned the
right skills yeah and they just know how
to Market themselves which is very
important you gotta know how to Market
yourself you got to have the right
skills for the job that you want and I I
have examples of people that I have
trained myself that they're like sis
admins now and they don't have any
search at all it's just they just they
just have skills that's it so I'm
extremely biased I'm always going to be
in the middle so if you're if your job
could pay for it that's fine yeah uh I I
will say that I don't I don't agree with
search chasing that's just how I am like
you don't need 100 certifications it
doesn't look good on the resumes if
you're brand new as well I don't like
that either because if you're brand new
they're gonna they're gonna assume
you're memorizing the questions and the
answers if you have too many
certifications that's just my that's
just my thoughts all right there you go
yeah I would agree like maybe once or I
like the idea of like once her one
project role and then you know as you
figure out what you want to continue
doing in your role you get another cert
to kind of like take you to the next
step and whatnot
but if you're chasing them if you're
doing like I knew someone who who did
like 24 certifications in a year
and I was just like
I mean good on you I guess but still I I
could not like how do you have time to
do other things and whatnot but anyway
uh what else what else is chess asking
us here where can we find real-time
Hands-On projects for Azure 104 104's
administrator
so
the when you study for the 104 you well
when you go to the certification page
for the 104 you're gonna have the like
the learning path uh like the Microsoft
learning paths like a bunch of modules
and each one of those is going to be
like 30 40 minutes or one hour and it's
like like 30 or 40 of them and
essentially You're Building mini
projects in those but you have sandboxes
on Moana so what I would recommend is
like
go do those but then Implement them also
in your own environment and then just
tear them down but like document because
I really what matters with projects is
the documentation and you being able to
speak to the skills that you're gaining
I think a lot of people try to over
complicate like I need to get Hands-On I
need to get Hands-On I need to come up
with this amazing like massive project
and that's not the reality you just need
to be able to do something so later you
can showcase your skill set uh and
probably the best way to do that is by
just somehow like if you write about it
if you make videos about it or whatnot
um you can have like you know with Cloud
a great thing cloud and devops a great
thing is like you can just create the
infrastructure as code files and one now
later you can just you can destroy it
bring it all up again and whatnot
um so I would start with like the stuff
that you're studying
then if that's not enough for you go to
like the architecture Center and then
type in a service that you're learning
so I know like the 104 you're going to
be focused on maybe cost management
virtual machines v-nets things like that
so type in the service name in the Azure
architecture Center and then just grab
one of the architectures that shows you
whichever one you feel like you can do
and go and build that those are actually
based on like those architectures I
notice are based on
customer interactions on like surveys
just like there's so many there's like
hundreds of them so there's plenty of
projects for you to do they do for that
too
um let's see here can you talk about the
stagnant area a lot of people deal with
me included moving from help desk to
sadmin Cloud when you can do the work
but stagnant ruined interviewee Outlook
Kev you got any insight into that
um are you usually saying that he's
stuck in helped us and he can't move on
to his BSS seven yeah what it is yeah
but they feel like because they spent
too much time in help this that's kind
of like working against them
nah I don't I don't I don't really agree
with that
I I think uh for someone that's trying
to move into something else you should
you should always
um
figure out what certifications you need
first that's one thing
um I'm gonna say I'm gonna say do do uh
do your homework figure out where you
live because all the certification stuff
is different everywhere you live doesn't
matter like I could live in New York
they probably asked me for Azure I could
go some rosly perhaps me for AWS yeah I
could go to I don't know to another
state and they'll probably ask me for
CCNA because some some CIS admin roles
require you to have CCNA I seen it in a
job posting so I really really depends
on the search so you want to do some
research figure out what certification
you need that's the number one number
two
um if you're in your current job I would
like to know if there's a way for you to
get promoted within your job so we want
to speak to your hiring manager see they
could promote you within your job or see
if you could Shadow someone that's
assistive so then you can learn those
skills and you can add those skills to
your resume obviously if they don't give
you that then there's that means you may
have to leave that job and look for
another job and then the third thing for
me is going to be is uh it's going to be
your LinkedIn profile your LinkedIn
branding like like I always talk about
LinkedIn branding because some of of
these jobs some of these things is like
sometimes it's not what you know it's
who you know so you want to make sure
you have a good LinkedIn brand LinkedIn
profile and you're you're leveling
yourself up you're adding those
necessary skills that are in the job
requirements on the resume and then
you're learning those skills and you're
just applying for jobs and you're
telling that resume to the job you that
you want that's just my thought process
on that yeah you're a you're a big fan
of LinkedIn I I sort of got into the
LinkedIn game a little little after so I
don't have too much experience with
using it to to like land rules but do
you have any like any tips any like
quick things that people can go and just
do right now on their LinkedIn to
improve to like just make it a better
use of LinkedIn
yeah yeah so I always tell people that
LinkedIn is not Facebook that's number
one I like that number two is
um if you're if you're going on LinkedIn
right now you could literally go to your
page you click on the edit button you
can actually change the url of your
LinkedIn profile so sometimes it has the
edit button there like sometimes you'll
have like a URL that's a generic URL put
your name in there and then put it
something something so change your URL
name on the bottom underneath your
underneath your photo I guess you could
add like keywords of jobs that you're
actually looking for some people will
put system and network admin help desk
I.T support obviously have a
professional photo of you it's not that
you like drinking and you're doing like
a Facebook picture or Twitter picture
you know it has to be appropriate right
um enable the feature option on the on
your on your LinkedIn profile and then
add Project work of things that you
actually are doing like YouTube videos
or uh your GitHub or something like that
and put that on the feature section so
people can see what you're actually
doing you can also add your
certification there so like if you have
like a Microsoft certification you could
actually put it there us to have that
you got that certification and then at
the about me you want to add all the
skills and all the things that the kids
are used to find you so you could put
like help desktop support Cloud ad
connect whatever like like personal
keywords in there
um and then you want to add your
experience and then you want to add your
courses you want to add the courses
you're taking the volunteer work et
cetera et cetera et cetera so that's a
little a little bit of just some
branding I guess there we go quick
couple quick tips to everyone go and
apply them
um someone says here
event at the reactor this month I was
just talking to Kev about this like hey
would you want to do like a tech Meetup
I I used to do I wasn't doing it monthly
maybe like every other month at the
reactor building in Microsoft and Times
Square but it would be cool we could do
a little a little networking session
um you could do like a I'd usually do
like a 15 minute some side type of
technical Talk of the beginner beginner
level and then I just have some sort of
networking activity
um I did sort of like a game show one I
did like a human Bingo the other and I
gave away swag and whatever stuff that I
can give away
um so something we could we might be
able to organize and whatnot
um what else is on here all right
someone said I found this from a Discord
before
certs help you land jobs what aren't the
definitive answer to getting a job it's
a mixture of Education work experience
passion project inserts how do you feel
about passion Kev
like in what way passion for passion for
work passion for Tech like do you need
passion to work in text you need passion
to to get a job you don't need you don't
need fashion to work inside but if
you're doing help desk you're going to
have to show the hiring manager that you
actually want to be in I.T because I've
seen people get jobs just by having an
amazing personality because you're
working with with hiring managers and
sometimes a lot of those hiring managers
they don't want someone that's going to
be toxic to the environment so they want
someone that actually has good soft
skills it has good people skills because
at the end of the day if you're going to
work help desk for example right you're
the first line of support for picking up
phone calls for handling users handling
tickets they would not want someone
that's going to be a headache to the
whole environment so I definitely will
always say that you need to have some
sort of personality when it comes to
going to some of these jobs those people
skills are very important especially
with me is I work a lot with Executives
and
um and they're just letting you know
right now I don't have that issue with
with people and talking to people
because I I worked in restaurants so I
love working I love working with people
I love talking to people excuse me yeah
again especially with with help desk I
mean if you're in like a smaller maybe a
mid-sized company you you you're going
to be talking to absolutely everyone
you're talking about like people who are
on your team you're gonna be talking to
um you know c-level Executives like you
mentioned uh and those are also
opportunities for you to sort of put
yourself out there uh through just
conversations of like someone might just
you know hit up the helpless like hey my
computer won't turn on
um and as maybe you're troubleshooting
something and there's like some empty
time and then you can fill that in with
just decent like just conversation like
how you doing I've through conversations
like that like I've kind of been
told a little bit about like oh future
projects or just things that are going
on at the company and whatnot and those
have been just building like networking
building kind of like just your the
people that know you the people that you
know and you never know what
opportunities can come from that and
that's something very unique to help
this very few roles will give you
exposure to absolutely every level and
everyone at a company like helped us
um so that's one of the cool things
about it I know someone says here how
would you go about moving into it in
your current work I'm in manufacturing
still working on my search like AWS
Cloud practitioner
um
all right so just a heads up for people
I usually ask like when you say getting
into it you got to kind of tell me or in
this case tell us like what's that goal
of yours like what role you're trying to
get into
um
and and sort of like what projects
you've done what kind of certifications
you're coming what kind of education you
come you have at the moment and then we
can kind of be a little bit more
tailored advice instead of just general
like
oh starting
I don't know do this or whatnot right uh
yeah someone says get hands experience
home lab Homeland I'd say home lab and
land to help this role then work towards
the collateral yeah if that's what
you're trying to get into Cloud uh let's
see what other questions are we got here
um
well I saw one that I wanted to answer
are there free AWS projects or is azure
content the same
uh you can any project that you build in
any Cloud you can just build it in the
other one like there's the cloud resume
project the majority of people have done
it in AWS now
but I usually recommend like go do that
in like another cloud and then you get
you don't really have to think of
another project to do you just gotta
have to learn how to implement it in
different Cloud now you can even make it
multi-cloud which I think would be an
interesting idea
um Kev what's your experience with who
used AWS at all
uh not a lot just a little bit
um I use I use more Azure than AWS yeah
so what's the uh this is how I am what's
the uh what kind of things are you doing
in Azure it's like uh mini like identity
kind of stuff
uh just just regular um just security
groups and active directory Azure Cloud
directory nothing crazy yeah yeah ad
connects and just like simple stuff
nothing I think crazy a a d is
such an underrated skill because 80 is
one so 80 in monitoring are the two
services that are implemented in
absolutely every single Azure service
and if you know how to use 80 the right
way like how to properly have roles and
whatnot then you're already in in a way
you have experience with the majority of
azure cloud services
um I
I don't have too much experience with
on-prem ad but I'm assuming you you like
you know that stuff in and out
yeah yeah yeah yeah I I just know that
it's if it's something that's not
implemented the right way it can go
wrong
so easily I remember
because I remember I think it was my
health desk gig where
they were just like you know clicking
they were creating users from scratch
pretty much like right click new user
finlet audit and there was like no
templates there was no like policies
there was nothing absolutely nothing you
and then always you know when someone
went on board and there was like no
automation for any of that so when
someone went on board they never had
um because the putting someone in the
right group would give them the right
permissions to the location that they
were in and then they would put them in
the wrong location so then they couldn't
log in when they were at and it was just
like it was just like a mess
um if you have any like
uh resources for people to learn 80.
any recommendations
I mean I have videos on active directory
so yeah there you go yeah I have videos
on active directory oh yeah I have
videos on active directory and I'm gonna
I'm working on um I'm working on a
course right now but hopefully when I'm
done with that on ad get that going uh
yes
oh hold on yeah I think my camera froze
let me see that camera froze yep
working on a um
working on the course so
oh there's something all right here we
go
okay yeah I I'm working on a course
right now so I I do have a udemy course
um and I'm working on another course
right now but this is going to be like
um Like A to Z like some some a plus
stuff in there like because some people
are not good with fundamentals I'm gonna
cover active directory I'm gonna cover
office 365. nice A little bit of
everything so three three six five is
also a Gateway into Cloud I would say
well I mean it is the cloud but more so
because a lot of a lot of companies that
end up going to Azure is because of
their relationship with 365 or their use
of 365. so
if you kind of have like already know
how to utilize it and same thing with ad
um
you're gonna have already kind of like
the upper hand when you want to work or
maybe for a migration or maybe you want
to work at Azure shop or whatnot like
having that skill set already is like
it's like pretty key there too
um let's see here
how can I apply the knowledge I have
acquired through Azure certificates do
you have
um
Azure certifications Kev
I literally I literally just have a plus
is expired I just have skills
I didn't ask you that you don't so you
haven't expired a plus and that's the
only cert you have at the moment yeah
yep it's crazy right did you did you
ever take any other certs
at all that was the only one
yep so you got so all right so talk to
me about that first tech roll so did you
how did that how did that happen
like how did you get that first one I I
um I got I got the first one because I
have that but my having day plus there's
a requirement you have to have the A
Plus in that job
um and then um I I uh I got my other
jobs just to learning myself like I'm
self-taught I don't have any I didn't I
don't have any like um certifications
besides the a plus
um and I I do have the acmt the Apple
Store Apple certified Macintosh
technician certification as well those
two
um but that's expires like old
um and uh I got yeah I got my first job
uh field tech a plus
um long story short and I have a video
and I talked about it uh making nine
dollars an hour for my first job in 19
and um I uh I I got after that I I
wanted to learn more so I did I
literally I literally like bust my ass
I'm like just studying and learning I
literally went I I learned about
virtualbox I learned about
um active directory server 20 2012 or
two at that time and um I build my own
home lab and everything I add those
skills to my resume and I apply for an
MSP company and the reason they hired me
was because I had a home lab experience
I was able to explain what is active
directory what is distribution group
what are security groups um uh what
happens when you add someone to a group
or or why should we not give someone
access to all these folders or just one
folder right so they really like those
answers so then I got a job for an MSP
company and that that company was where
I I got a lot of my experience I was
exposed to a lot of different
um companies within the atmosphere and
they had multiple hedge funds so I
worked for like over eight to nine hedge
funds in a non-profit as well and
that's where I um that's where I got a
lot of experiences I was touching
everything yeah and um
I transferred that over to hedge funds
after that and I started making more
money more money and more money because
of the skills and everything and um and
and I was I'm very aggressive so I
worked for the MSP company they will
give out bonuses and stuff like that so
I was closing about 12 1200 to 1400
tickets a month
just by I was number one every every
every month I was number one in on the
MSP company because I was very
aggressive and
um and you you know you know how it goes
like when you when you want that grind
you want those bonuses you go in you go
all in I go in so I feel like that's
that's how I am but I have no I have no
certifications were you were you using
like for that first role were you using
like job descriptions for like
essentially like study guides for you to
figure out what you needed to to study
or or was it like at the beginning you
were just kind of just learning
everything
I was kind of learning everythingwould you recommend that approach or
would you recommend people kind of like
reverse engineer it now
um so for me for me the number one thing
I think is very important for anyone in
um that's new to it is learning how to
learn
so if you learn if you if you learn if
you learn how to learn you could do it
you could be you could pretty much do
anything in it so basically what that
means is learn learn how to learn
something so you may be Hands-On you may
not be Hands-On you'd be good with a
book you may not be good with a book
figure out how you learn yeah and then
go based on that and then you can
reverse engineer that and then you can
start learning these skills that you
actually need for the job market so
there you go
I like that too yeah learning how to
learn this is important Germaine says
here MSP set you up lovely with
experience yeah I feel I don't
have to I've worked with msps as like we
were their clients but I haven't like
worked at one
um but yeah I can imagine like you just
kind of kind of see like customers out
of all different types of ranges and
sizes and whatnot
um so yeah I could I could see it being
like a pretty cool gig for a little bit
might be a little overwhelming at some
point
um let me see here's a good one so what
does this admin actually do like what
would a day-to-day be like that's a good
question
[Music]
um
is this admin it really depends on the
company to be honest for you yeah but I
know people that have CIS admin titles
and they don't even do anything since
I'm related but
um to be honest with you um for me I I
do I deal with I deal with with
um what I do is I deal with OCTA I deal
with OCTA admin portal
um I deal with
um Splunk varonis
um crowdstrike
um
uh active directory
um new hires terminations
um Citrix citrus cloud uh Centric Studio
Citrix director uh we're a VMware shop
so I deal with VMware I deal with VMware
clusters
um we have
um
we have a lot of things set up on VM so
we do we do VMS from scratch so I do
upgrades patches
um same thing upgrades and patches using
sscm we use sscm over here in my job um
so I do patches like that as well we do
create software packages as well so like
if someone needs someone needs something
we actually provision it so they could
see it in software Center and stuff like
that so
um my job's not boring I do a little bit
of everything so it's pretty pretty
interesting and I'm also an admin for
for uh for uh SharePoint uh and I do
things on SharePoint as well and Office
365 and exchange and all that all the
good stuff it's not it's not just one
thing all over the place so
do you is that where
like you very much like the role are you
trying to make moves or like like where
are you at right now with that uh I I I
like my job but I am I'm I may be
looking for a cyber security role I'm
not sure yet but we'll see yeah we'll
see we'll see I I uh I'm not sure yet
we'll see is that do you think you
like are you like upskilling already or
is it something like you're thinking
about doing or
um for cyber security I'm I'm thinking
about it I'm thinking about it because I
I've been I've been doing like try hack
me I have a video on Hector I have a
hack video on hack the Box on my YouTube
channel so I do I I'm like I'm slowly
going into security because people have
been watching you made a video on OCTA
what's going on right now yeah yeah yeah
so yeah I'm slowly going into it that
security space is wild it's like it's a
lot of money there especially that cloud
security space I think there's a that's
a big Niche I feel like if people aren't
like set on a rolling cloud like
I feel like maybe take a look at that I
think just like I released and read an
article about uh Microsoft like
investing
into like a cyber security curriculum at
a bunch of different community colleges
all over the country because
um
it's understaffed like the whole the
space every security is just not enough
people to feel like to fill the roles
and whatnot and I read somewhere like on
average like you're making like like
entry-level security rules you're making
anywhere from 80k to like up like higher
and whatnot so
it's cool space I know it's
kind of tough to break into but uh
there's a lot of potential there so if
anyone is interested I would say give it
a shot
let's see here
um
system could be networking literally
scripting for ad and that's all they
care about kept like you could easily
get into cyber security role with all
that
there you go I don't yeah I don't know
anything see I want to like learn about
security just just to know a little bit
more about it but I don't really it's
not really like necessarily like a pivot
to the rule or whatnot because I just
feel like I have no idea about it uh
here's good yeah I
I was going to say that I I met John
Hammond so oh he talked about it yeah I
met John Hyman in person because I I had
to do a presentation
um I spoke in a presentation in Texas a
couple like a month ago actually I made
another presentation so I met John
Hammond and I met someone that watches
my YouTube videos like dude literally
just gave me a hug out of nowhere I'm
like what the that's cool and then
um I I met
um uh this company right here pgq they
actually took pictures of me because I
mean I have a video with PDQ I made a
video on their stuff so they took
pictures with me and um I I had to speak
you know I met John Hammond we were just
talking about cyber security
um uh Huntress the company he works for
and just like oh okay I didn't know I
didn't know you could do this or that or
the different types of roles right I met
someone that does you are seeing over
there it was very interesting very
interesting stuff
yep let me take a look at what else we
got here
kevtech how much does knowing the
trading software matter in your
day-to-day troubleshooting what is the
trading software do you know what you're
talking about he knows what I'm talking
I know he's talking about so because I
work for a fintech company I work for
financial services uh so if you if you
do help desk
um so you guys are aware you guys just
it's a niche it's a niche thing right
it's not really like but if you work
financial services and you work help
desk like that does all the jobs that
typically they pay over 100k so for
financial services only helped us in
financial services and that's that's
because you need to know how to
troubleshoot Financial applications like
trading software like King mentioned
right so you may need to know how to
troubleshoot cap IQ mcavic is Bloomberg
Bloomberg terminal Bloomberg technology
those things are actually on the job
posting when you go and apply for a
helpless role it pays that much money so
if you know if you know anything about
that then you could make a lot of money
because I always talk about this and I
don't like talking about money because
some people like nah you can't make that
much I'm like no I'll show you I'll show
you you're gonna make a lot of money and
help that's working for a financial firm
that's great I did not know about Niche
I saw I know I know helped us got a lot
of helpless but I didn't know that there
was like a niche that would pay
that that like when you talk was that
that one that you were telling me that
was like 150 was that like in one of
those types overall oh man yeah it's
Financial Financial Services like I I
help someone I I literally just changed
the topic a little bit I helped someone
that worked for a financial firm in
Texas making 95k that was his first job
in I.T he only has a computer site he
only has a computer science degree and
that's it and he learned for me and I
trained them on that software the
Bloomberg software and a few other
applications as well and his first job
making 90 from now he's not even doing
that anymore now he's a he's a lead of a
software team so it's totally different
I have to get him back on my Channel at
some point but so so what about the
training for those specific applications
it's like is that something that you can
find on YouTube or is a little more like
is it tougher to find content on that uh
no it's not like it's not really it's
like it's like more like it has to be
made by me or somebody that yeah I feel
like it'd be more Niche because I've
I've never heard of that that's cool
yeah that's cool that's cool yeah yeah
y'all like if
yeah like I think it's all about those
niches it's all about those niches like
cloud is great but Cloud security is
like crazy money like like help desk
when it comes to like that Finance space
like it's gonna it sounds like it's
crazy too so that's cool I didn't know
that that's I'm glad this person asked
that question here let me see yeah it's
like it's like uh you know you know like
uh like help desk for um uh for for like
the like the hospitals and stuff like
that yeah EMS system and stuff like that
Healthcare yeah you make a lot of money
out of that too it's helped us too you
made a lot of money if you know how to
use the EMS softwares and stuff like
that yeah I'm about to go start my own
Help Desk Companythat's crazy man that's crazy yeah what
we got here
um would you recommend volunteering for
experience volunteering at schools for
experience what do you think about
volunteering for experience
uh they could do volunteer work I've I
volunteer Myself by the way so I I
always recommended it yeah like now
current day yeah yes how
how do you keep up with it all
yeah I volunteer I worked for Rice's
cyber so racist cyber is a cyber
security non-profit organization that uh
they do like free education for
minorities in I.T African Americans
latinx Hispanics and stuff like that I'm
part of that so
so now now I need a recap of all the
things that you do so you work you do
YouTube you're doing this volunteer work
what else you got on your plate you're
making courses what else you got I'm
making making courses I literally was on
on vets At Con yesterday working with
them yesterday I actually joined their
Discord so I work a lot with Veterans as
well I do training with veterans and um
like it's free it's free for them like
if you if you if you're a veteran and
you you want to jump on a car with me
it's going to be free free I'm not going
to charge you anything oh
um I do a little bit of everything so
I'm all over the place you do I'm on 45
different discords soto talk to you about I know you do
mentoring calls too
wow yeah yeah is that like anyone can
book some time to just talk to you or
what's that like
um so that that's paid that one is paid
so like if you're gonna if I'm gonna sit
here and I'm gonna give you like a plan
and everything and tell you how to do
this and that that's paid yeah so that's
that's on my website you go to my
website and
um you know go go to do that
are you sort of do you hold yourself
accountable for that person's success
though that's always my issue with
mentoring is like yeah yeah if they
don't make it then I feel like I'm I'm
kind of part to blame
so with me it's like you're stuck with
me until you get a job so that's just
that's just how it was that that's
that's how it was with me on my Discord
too if you've been on my Discord so on
my Discord I ran you can't you can't see
the channels because they're invisible
but I ran four four internships for free
paid by me and I keep you accountable
once you get a job at 19. they all got
jobs at 19. so it's just like you got to
keep yourself accountable for stuff like
that if you're helping yourself so
you're so your mentoring is until they
land a role yeah yeah that's what I like
but the majority of mentoring I've seen
is like come here I'll give you advice
you gotta pay my hundred dollars and I
don't really care what ends up happening
with you as long as you pay me because
because mentoring is really like it's
got to be a two-way thing it's got to be
beneficial for
or something that's got to come out of
it for both parties because then that's
how you know it's like you know because
you really like you want an outcome well
I guess technically getting paid is an
outcome but then the other person I
don't know it's just it's true I feel
bad I feel bad like I take an advantage
of someone like that I won't do that see
like it's like the other person I told
you I paid twenty thousand dollars he
came crying to me like physically like
literally crying a thousand dollars and
I'm like I don't even charge that much
that's too much who the hell charges
that much the hell is this so you know
it's like it's like you know like for me
it's like I don't like to abuse people
you know like we don't do that right
especially with me because I come from
humble beginnings I do not like to do
that to other people that's just messed
up just straight up messed up twenty
thousand dollars is crazy man that's
like a brand new car that's like a house
down payment it's like a semester like a
year of college that's like a whole WGU
degree man that's crazy that see that
stuff upsets me so like so much but
anyway we don't need to start ranting oh
what up Tech with Lucy everyone
Taco Lucy's here her Channel's I don't
know I feel like you're about to hit 50k
uh and if you're interested in AWS Cloud
stuff Tech Lucia's channel to watch and
then Lucy we gotta get you on one of
these these these
q a I guess sessions and whatnot uh
if you're interested let me know but
anyway
um
let's see what else we got here
uh can I can I put count volunteering as
experience yeah absolutely if you're if
you're volunteering uh whether if it's
like
any kind of in any kind of professional
setting
absolutely put it on there
um
I think that is
because you're working
just because you're not getting paid it
doesn't mean it's not work
same thing with projects like projects
you're technically not getting paid but
if they're gonna help you showcase your
skills so they should be on your resume
as well you said kind of got to be smart
and detailed with how you like put them
on your resume and whatnot but yeah
absolutely all that stuff should go on
there
um Kev helped me build my first lab and
get my first it job 22 an hour now doing
tier two and now working on getting into
devops yo
nice that's cool man
that's that's freaking awesome
um yeah that's really awesome look at
that changing lives right thereuh let's see here
uh GPS why don't you allow people to
send you money because I don't need it
uh I don't
I don't I said it's not that I don't
need it's like I don't want it from
y'all
I want to take it from Microsoft I want
to take it from me I want to take the
money from the companies that have
billions and billions I don't want to
take it from people who are like trying
to get into into the space
uh that's why I tailored my content I
make my content and I do it in
sustainable ways where I don't feel like
I need to make extra to do what I do
um so I was gonna I was gonna say not to
interrupt you I was going to say that
I'm a tech trainer So like
um I do work with job skills here so I'm
not sure you're familiar with job
skillshare he has a YouTube channel
um he has 80 000 subscribers
um I'm friends with him so I do do I do
do tech training on his platform I train
people over there um that's obviously
not free you got to pay for that but the
thing is ours is like our training is
very affordable and I we help five
people get jobs in 19. through our
through our training
um one of the guys that I trained he
Stephen he got a job working for connect
wise so
um it's just like that's a big name yeah
I I just I know I know our stuff works
because I I trained I trained students I
trained a lot of students in uh on his
channel if you watch any of his videos I
I trained someone his name is Brad uh he
got his first help desk job 17 years old
um now he's 18 he's a sister admin now
so I feel like ahead of the game right
there I feel like anyone could get a job
in it you just got to have the right
mindset and you gotta just you gotta be
motivated and don't give up so easily
that's like my that's my number one
thing I teach my students is never give
up never give up no matter what because
I feel like uh I feel like when you work
when you try to get a job in it it's
like you when you go good for a job just
getting any job in it just going into it
in general it feels like you're it feels
like you're Rocky you're getting hit so
many times right and then no one gives
you a chance you're getting hit you're
getting hit you're getting hit and then
finally someone gives you a chance and
someone opens the door and gives you a
chance and then once you get that first
job it just go up after that right so
that's how I look at it and I train my
students to think that way because I
don't want you to give up so easily it's
so discouraging too and also it's a
full-time job in itself just to get a
job so tell people not to give up that's
my thing I would also say that if you if
you've been at it for a while in a while
a while a while and you're like you keep
getting rejected and you keep feeling
like you're not making progress you
gotta kind of take a second to be like
and kind of like Get reflective being
like all right what is it that I'm doing
wrong maybe you're following the wrong
advice maybe you're not doing like
something maybe you're not telling your
resume maybe you're sending one generic
resume to every single role maybe you're
not putting in the work in some specific
area so it's like this this getting into
the space is very it's like doable it's
possible many people have done it but if
it's taking you too long and you're
finding yourself with like loud a lot of
like Roblox like take a second to kind
of like research like what it is that
you know that is going on because like
Kev said it's like it's like it's a job
finding a job but each time it kind of
gets like
like
not easier but simpler because what you
learn from that first round you get that
first job now you go and apply that when
you go to the next one to the next one
the next one it becomes like a little
bit more straightforward and whatnot but
interviewing is like oh my goodness dude
we could talk about interviewing
it's it's a skill set on completely its
own which is why I put like so much
emphasis on people to like develop
their ability to speak to their skill
set
because if you're like all nervous in an
interview like people are gonna like
it's almost like they sniff that out
and then like you were mentioned like
earlier on people want to hire someone
who
it's like not gonna like kind of lower
like team morale who's not gonna be like
a complicated person who's gonna put in
the work and just like work with the
team and I that in your interview is
essentially your kind of one opportunity
to showcase that that's who you are and
if you're going in all nervous and
you're like you're not prepared
you're gonna kind of kind of blow it do
you like do you remember like your first
interviews like do you have any prep
tips or any advice you got on on just
like specifically interviewing
um for me I always tell people to uh
have someone have a loved one or a
family member interview you for practice
yeah um I also the other thing with me
is I like to interview I'll probably
record myself interviewing see how I
answer some questions that'll be the
second thing I would do and then the
third the third thing is
um there's a lot of there's a lot of
people that if you reach out to them you
reach out to someone that could just do
interviews you just have a conversation
with you just practice with someone
um the fourth thing would be if you guys
don't know anything about this but
Toastmasters does it I'm not sure maybe
with Toastmasters but Toastmasters is a
company that does like speaking and
presenting and talking so if you know
how to do that that's going to help you
with interviews because you need to have
confidence it's the same thing for a job
by the way too especially when you're
working with Executives and if you if
you don't have confidence and you're
working with someone you're working one
of the sea levels because I have workers
I gotta ask you to leave the room so
this is that's how it is with the
executive so you really gotta know you
really gotta know your I'm just
saying like that's just how it is with
interviews as well you gotta know your
stuff because if you don't know your
stuff they know that you're full of crap
and that's that's one thing the other
thing is don't rely on your resume so if
you have something on your resume and
they ask you an interview question about
that it's like oh shoot I don't know how
to answer that question so those things
are very important I uh a friend of mine
he he was talking about the story that
he once put that he had SQL experience
on his resume just randomly for some
reason
and on his interview uh someone asked
him like Hey I want to like I don't know
drop this table or do something like
join this table or something a sequel
like can you show me how to do it and he
just froze
he's like he's like you know what I lied
uh but he ended up I think he ended up
doing well though
um for whatever other reason I think
because of that mistake like they ended
up having conversations around other
skill since and whatnot but like yeah I
don't really understand because like uh
the the lying or like the lie on your
resume or like fake into your makeup
like
at some point you're gonna get caught
and then you're gonna you're gonna kind
of regret those those decisions and
whatnot but yeah yeah that's that's a
tough one
um I like the idea of having other
people interviewing and like one area
that I would like to
provide more of or do any of it's just
like mock interviewing do you do you do
any of that I do I do I have I have
videos on YouTube with people the guy
sweating I'm like interviewing someone
he's sweating uh because I I did one
interview with so he got a job though he
got a job
um his name is Fred um I interviewed him
he's one of the students I train and I
we we interview him live
um it was live with with with uh YouTube
and with LinkedIn so LinkedIn had like
500 people staring at the video while I
was live with him and I gave him like uh
I gave him like a broken VM and I'm like
okay I need you to fix it right now it's
like okay and he's remote and he's
trying to fix it he's trying to
troubleshoot it trying to figure out how
to get it to work and then he fixes and
then like his confidence went up 100 and
I feel like oh damn I didn't know that
was the fix and he fixed it oh man I
spent 30 minutes on this and that was
the fix oh come on I got a lot of doing
that with Cloud stuff yeah a lot of
people he got he got a job he got he got
a job working for VMware so a lot of I
feel like a lot of people just need to
become a little bit more comfortable but
with being watched as you're working on
something or just being like seen by
someone as you're explaining something
because that pressure that pressure that
you get and honestly it comes back to
help this you get a lot you get you get
your end users watching you as you're
trying to figure out right there in live
like what's going on at help desk and I
feel like every time I after that I was
interviewing after doing that year and a
half I held this like it was like oh
this is kind of just like another
scenario like oh they you know do this
do that whatever technical interview or
whatever or like I think I was
interviewing more so in like technical
um like with technical interviews during
like pandemic so a lot of it was teams
and zoomed and whatnot
um
but like a lot of people need to put
themselves in that scenario for like
just being watched as they work because
that kind of unlocks
something that's tough to tap into
yeah we have the we have that so a job
skills share a YouTube channel I
mentioned right we have that we just
don't call the hot seat so basically
What's called the hot seat is we have
seven manage seven people that are have
experience and they give this person a
messed up VM like services or messed up
Windows 10 the operating system it may
have a virus you don't know it's just
certain things on it on purpose so you
got to figure out how to fix it and then
we're all we're all just staring at you
so it's like seven eight videos on that
it's so funny like the reaction of the
people that were helping but they all
got jobs at it it helps them right it
helps right so it does help so
definitely I like I need to do more of
that I stopped doing that I did that
like a year ago I need to do more of
that to bring people in and just I like
to mess with people I give them a messed
up VM and here you go you fix it
oh yeah like because that's
realistic right like that's the kind of
stuff that you're gonna be kind of
thrown in to do at the role like that's
that's that's what I don't like about
um
kind of like coding interviews or like
algorithms and data structures and stuff
like that because it's not very
realistic but I really like a lot more
of like the sad man network admin Cloud
women's Cloud support roles that's why
like it's really something can be like
very practical that it's actually part
of the role and whatnot
um let me see you got a lot we got a lot
of
got a lot of hellos the big ball of
azure Guy saying hey uh what up the big
bald Azure guy we got Mike Daniel asks
here
GPS how much do you think you would make
if you got transferred to a cheaper
State like Texas would you get paid the
same or would you wage go decrease
um
I would not go I would never accept my
wage to be decreased for any reason
but that's because I know my worth
um so if I was going to make a move I
don't have any interest in living in
Texas so I don't think that would be an
issue or moving anywhere outside of the
East Coast
but if I were to move somewhere I were
at my way my my wage would need to be
considered
um there's no way in hell that I'm not
letting that happen
so that answers that question
um
let me see GPS should try to that but on
cloud services stuff that would be
pretty cool yeah I would love to be like
I would love to like have someone on and
be like hey I need you to tell me
exactly how much this service costs in
the description subscription and like so
I can see their cost management skills
or hey I need you to find the uh I need
to use the Azure CLI to tell me the
private IP address of this virtual
machine something like that I feel like
that would be cool just to see what
people try to do I feel like that would
be pretty pretty interesting I mess with
people though like I do I do both I do
soft skills too like like tell me why I
shouldn't I hire you or uh to uh uh tell
me about yourself or what is your
greatest weakness or how do you work
well with it do you work well with other
team member or how do you do with the
other two like I asked those annoying
personality questions it doesn't matter
I like I like the question about tell me
a time you got negative feedback and how
did you take it yeah and sometimes
people like the thing is like you'll
always get these types of things will
happen will happen in in your role or
whatnot and people just tend to like not
remember them or they forget them or
like they don't write them down but I
would say like whenever you feel like
you have an impactful thing that has
happened uh like a customer scenario or
anything kind of like save it somewhere
write it down like you don't need to put
in the exact details because that might
be like under NDA or something like that
but kind of be able to take the essence
of that because later on when you're
interviewing that stuff's gonna help for
sure
we keep getting questions on the current
job market you want to talk about that
the economy is in a weird place and some
people are struggling to get jobs and
laid off left and right it seemsum yeah
[Music]
so let's we gotta
we gotta we gotta kind of divide that
question up there
with
let's talk about being laid off first
um because that's kind of like a thought
like I don't know do you feel like this
do you do you feel like
oh I'm gonna get fired but like every
day
do you ever feel like that
no you don't feel like that I feel like
that every single day the only day that
I don't feel like oh I'm gonna get fired
is it was a day that I got promoted back
in May then that was the day I allowed
myself to like not feel like that but
then every day after that I'm like oh my
God I'm gonna get fired I'm gonna fire
so it makes me very like smart with my
with my finances and whatnot which I
guess
there might be healthier ways of doing
that but uh anyway so I always have the
mindset of like
you could get laid off and as much as I
enjoy my role and whatnot I'm very much
aware that like business is business
because this business both ways like you
gotta you gotta guess much you gotta do
as much for the company and whatnot as
they require but they also have to be
doing that for you so it's like business
both ways and at the end of the day they
want to make money so if they got a
whole department to like you know fix
their numbers or improve their numbers
or whatever it is I got to do they're
gonna do it they're not gonna care if
like you
you Gwen are like amazing at this like
if they gotta cut they'll cut you so
like that's the kind of mindset this
like no one is sort of
safe I don't know how you feel about it
how do you feel about like laid off my
mind says crazy my mindset is crazy
because I
I I always I always say treat yourself
like an MVP
um that's just how I am treat yourself
like an MVP
um at the end of the day if you work for
a company and I and I and I said this in
other YouTube videos
um and at the end of the day you weren't
for company if you die tomorrow your
job's gonna be there online again that's
just how I feel about it yeah facts it's
just that's just how I feel about it and
that's I'm just saying facts and the
other thing is is
um the job that you're apply the job
you're going for nobody cares about your
feelings just that's just how it is in
it because I've been I've been in and
I've been in jobs I was very cutthroat
um a lot of red flags and like I left
the company they're like okay bye see
you later yeah all right you never give
me anything okay bye you know so that's
just how I feel it I feel like you
should you should treat yourself like an
MVP yeah and when you're going for a job
interview make sure you're interviewing
them and they're interviewing you and
you need to find out that you feel well
with them and they follow up with you so
if you don't do that you're gonna be in
trouble that's just my my thought
process always be your number one fan
and always look out for yourself because
no one else is gonna I'm like you're
gonna encounter great people great teams
great bosses and I've been super
fortunate to have like really fantastic
managers in my past and in my like
currently but
you if you're not advocating for
yourself if you're not like you're sort
of keeping a record of the stuff you're
doing speaking to the things putting
yourself in situations where you stick
out where people can know your name and
whatnot no one else is going to do that
like No One's Gonna Be on your back like
oh like you Gwen did this or like oh
like you know like no if you don't do
that
like you know
No One's Gonna No One's Gonna look be
looking out for you so I was like We'll
always kind of have like that mindset as
far as like the freezes
so I was paying a lot of attention about
this kind of stuff lately uh not lately
but like maybe the last month or so and
then I was like all right at this point
it just doesn't make much sense to kind
of keep up to date with that but like
all like a lot of big Tech Has are has
got freezes going on or layoffs I know I
know Microsoft laid off like a thousand
people last week or something like that
and then prior to that there was like
another couple thousand back in August
and
um Mata is like I don't know on the
downfall I know Google's been doing some
I know anyway all these companies and
whatnot
uh I don't know how like government tech
jobs are doing because like my my worry
was like so I know startups are doing
layoffs freezes or completely shutting
down I know but now big Tech but I don't
know more so like traditional companies
and whatnot like where they're at where
they're at our government so I feel like
if we start seeing that then it's kind
of like oh snap like we're headed for
tougher times but I don't I'm never
really up to date with where that's
where that's at the moment but at this
point it's still like
you know you could have like a like the
best market and still not land a role
so like keep applying keep changing that
resume keep going keep going like don't
let it stop you like maybe it'll be
difficult but
yeah I'm saying that that job Mark is
like in the middle now it's kind of hard
to determine what's gonna happen in the
next couple of the next couple of months
of the next year but
um like I always tell people you should
make sure that
uh you know the right you have the right
skills
um and you level yourself up like crazy
because you don't know what could happen
so always be always have that mindset
that you want to don't get don't get
don't stay in one split don't stay in
one place don't get too comfortable yeah
um make sure you learn the right skills
because
um like I said before earlier like
um sometimes something could happen to
you you don't know right or they let you
go but you got to make sure you have the
right skills you make sure you level
yourself but make sure you make yourself
recession-proof is what I'm trying to
say so you want to make sure that you
you know you you not only you have your
job like I made a video on this on
YouTube but not only you have a job but
you you have different Avenues of income
just in case something were to happen to
you in that job that's just my thought
process on that as well so yeah I'm
trying to get into real estate I'm
trying to leave New York though I'm
leaving New York next year for sure
that's a fact man I'm um it's been nice
but it's way too expensive here way too
expensive like it's yeah I'm like with
the money I'm making like I could live
in like a like a multi-family do like a
house hacking kind of thing and then
kind of just continue purchasing like
properties and whatnot someone said here
like wait I saw a funny comment here
where was it
uhuh oh my goodness it was something about
uh you'll be fine if you get fired but
you might have to move to Texas
that was funny that was funny that was
funny yeah no no yeah I'm trying I'm
trying to like diversify that cash
though yeah um but just like you were
saying like you gotta have multiple
streams of income and smart
uh whereas I saw another company another
question here
is the ms-900s certification useful in
your daily job
I don't know what the ms-900 is
I I don't I don't keep up with
certification I'm ms-900
that's that's crazy man you only have an
expired a plus I swear yeah I swear oh
that's a 365 fundamentals
oh okayI don't I don't I've not used that
certification so I wouldn't know I
haven't I haven't used it either but
yeah I don't have any
that's crazy that is I I don't know I
feel I don't know why I felt like
you would have more but that's there we
go people like
you know kev's in here making making
that money and he has expired a plus
that's all a certification
and I don't and I don't have a degree
and no degree there just pure experience
pure experience projects and whatnot let
me see uh
uh wait GPS what exactly is the position
of Microsoft because I couldn't find any
Cloud jobs for Microsoft you couldn't
find any Cloud jobs at Microsoft what
are you talking about
what are you what are you not looking
like you're probably not looking the
right way uh so I'm A Cloud developer
Advocate at Microsoft
um let's see should I remove some skills
programming Linux Etc and projects Linux
for my resume to streamline and focus
resume for help this job Kev what do you
what advice you got for like a tailored
resume for a help desk gig I'm gonna be
honest with you right now uh right now
help desk they're asking for python in
Powershell whoa
yeah
some jobs are asking for that now and
helped us
so just you're aware it's just for like
the scripting kind of scripting kind of
thing yeah yeah you need you need to
know you need to know python or you may
need to know Powershell or or you may
need to know Linux now it's not like
before it's very more like you're asking
for more stuff now
not just regular active directory are
they paying more though yes all right
cool cool I like that I like that I like
because the line between helped us since
this admin is like super it's like a
such a gray area anyway
because I feel I'll feel like a lot of
like
help desk especially like you're saying
in those higher tiers you're essentially
doing a lot of sysadmin stuff anyway
and then when you when you're talking
sysadmin you're talking you're talking
like you said scripting you know you got
to automate some stuff you gotta got
that ad
um you got to have some you know bash
experience or like uh maybe Linux server
experience or whatnot so
wow that's wild I don't know I I have to
take a look at like some like these
these uh
more recent help desk
kind of job descriptions because that's
wild yeah you'll see like you'll see
like active directory Office 365
um ssem for help desk
um Avanti
um software packaging
um northern ghosts
um pixie boot like setting up images and
stuff like that yeah yeah
uh you'll probably see dual or OCTA or
RSA it really depends on the company
you'll see MDM as well mobile device
management with intunes or with mobile
iron or with Master 360 really depends
on the company so it's very like help
desk you gotta look at the job
description because some of them pay a
lot of money because they require all
these skills yeah and some of them just
all they require is just active
directory that's it and they don't pay a
lot so yeah it really depends on the on
the job and job description yeah those
ones with like python Powershell better
be paying a good
closer to like a CIS admin kind of
salary because
unless you know I mean also the thing
could happen where it's like oh suddenly
all helped us just asks for that and
then they can just all lower the salary
because like that kind of becomes a new
industry standard
I don't know not saying that that's
gonna happen but I hope not like I could
see like I don't know because businesses
can get greedy you know like yeah yeah
yeah let me see what else here do you
guys have a portfolio if so what kind of
projects do you have in it GitHub repo
terraform scripts and whatnot so
I wouldn't necessarily I don't I don't
have a portfolio I I have a GitHub
um and then in GitHub I have like I just
I've I've I make all of my repos public
even if I'm just starting to work on
them I will like it'll be public there
as I'm building it or whatever if I
don't have absolutely everything it's
still there because so people who follow
me or GitHub can like kind of watch what
I'm working on
but ideally I like to get my repos in
places where
there's some decent documentation
there's like a diagram and then there's
like some CI CD and whatnot
that's kind of like what I expect from a
repository
but if I need to do more or with like
something different then I'll do it but
yeah I GitHub is pretty much where I
point people to
uh when it comes to like a project I
don't know about you Kev
I I I just I use my uh
I use my YouTube channel as my as my
portfolioum and I have my website too so I have a
website too so that that's my portfolio
right there my website showing what I
actually but showing what I actually do
because I
I help like um like people like some
managers even use my some managers even
use my YouTube videos to train their
help desk too because I spoke with I
speak with different managers all the
time yeah and um yeah like I know I know
some of my stuff is working because I
know as people get jobs I see people get
training with my videos I guess so
um let's just my portfolio is my website
and what I do on YouTube yeah excuse me
yeah I feel you we have I think because
we all sort of like in different roles
it's like and that would go for anyone
like if depending on your role like what
your portfolio needs to look like would
be different like so for a web like a
front-end web developer like you better
have like a bunch of just like websites
or like or or I don't know maybe
snapshots or websites or like a gallery
or something like that because that's
what people care about right
um
and whatnot but if you're like maybe
like a back end or maybe you're like an
art like a solution architect you'll you
might need a Blog more where you're just
writing about your Solutions and whatnot
um
but yeah so like it depends
let me see have you ever been asked to
do the need the needful what is thatdon't know what the need for sure that
means
uh
uh hold on let me see what else we got
here
by the way love the videos Kev I was
just watching your video on ad and
setting it up I think I need to learn
that for what I want to do in my career
A.D I feel like it all comes down to A.D
see I feel like we might uh all right we
talked about the current uh
the current
job marketuh fixing things under pressure fixing
it under pressure made that interview
easyhave you used
psychotic secret server
do you know what that is
I know what that is I use that in my job
okay talk to us about it because I have
no idea it's secrets so we we have the
Codex server set up with active
directory and it syncs over the active
directory so basically
um there's automation involved which I
don't do that but
um if you image a computer using sscm on
in my environment it creates a local
account the local account comes from
tacotic server so then when you if the
computer error falls off the domain you
got to go to Taconic server log in with
two-factor and then pick up the local
account that way so that's it's an
actual server or a website that you go
to where you store passwords on for for
things kind of like a cable that's cool
yes interesting you go in there and you
said you could you could you could
actually download the app itself and you
could put it on an application as well
and then open it up on your computer and
a lot of software developers use it in
my job because they have to they have to
like remote in or SSL to certain boxes
and stuff like that
can you entertain a chat I gotta just
buzz the door I'll be right back yeah no
worriesso hopefully that that answers your
hopefully that answers your questions I
have used it before wasting your job to
make videos
uh I'm not I know nothing about devops
I'm gonna wait for her to come back for
that question anyone have any questions
for me I saw someone else had a question
uh help desk once once python Powershell
they better cut that check I agree with
you
um what would be your advice to be what
would be your advice for a uni student
with two years left trying to get into
cloud with already eight months you
should you should be you should build a
home lab for a cloud let me see anyone
uh hi Mike
hi Mikeuh how much do I make it's a good
question
um
you're asking me how much do he's asking
me how much do I make this funny do you
talk to you like do you talk salary or
no
I don't talk salary but I'll tell you I
talk to answer his question I make more
than 150k so yeah I um
I don't have anything to talk about
salary uh but I know some people get
weird about it oh then I saw someone I
saw someone say what isn't your job to
make videos is that to me or to Kev and
I laughed at it on the other one I guess
so that's what I say because to me it's
definitely not like Prime now I do a lot
I like
build more so Azure products now than
anything
uh and then 50 is kind of like workshops
and whatnot but I all the video stuff
that I do is
um the side
uh outside of the outside of the road
let me see here
I saw another question here I want his
hands what made you want to stay and
helped us as a career because it's
frustrating that's a good questionman yeah yeah I love working with people
I love I love Financial Services I love
working with people I love working with
uh the guys that I work with I guess the
executives I work with they're not
they're not a pain in the ass to deal
with they're actually they're the nicest
people I met in in my career like my
current job like everyone's super
friendly
um you're not allowed to scream at y'all
with someone otherwise you're gonna get
in trouble by HR it's not like like
before a long time ago it helped us it's
not the same thing now now it's like
they're actually covering they're
actually protecting help desk people now
it's not like before where you can't you
can't scream and yell at people you
gotta get gonna get fired and and my
other job the guy it was a guy was there
was a guy that screamed and yelled at me
so I worked for a Japanese hedge fund
um and he he fought he he got fired
because he screamed the yell at me HR
fired the hell out of that guy so you
can't be screaming together you helped
us to uh guys affiliate yeah I feel I
like there are some help desk gigs that
I feel like it pay well and then you got
kind of like the right structure going
on then that could be like a
I could see that being like a like a
career like a little bit more long term
for some people
um it just sucks that a lot of them
people I don't know I just feel like
people feel like they can take advantage
of you because
you're supposed to fix things for them
and I don't I just human beings human
beings are what make it suck
um let me see what else are here I can't
even imagine that 100K life trying to
hard to get there congrats
like the thing about money is
if you don't take care of keeping your
expenses kind of in check like the more
money you can make
they're more money you're like you're
expenses to go up so like then you're
gonna have to be like oh I can't wait to
hit 200k oh I can't wait to hit 300K and
whatnot so it's like I feel like you
could be making because I remember when
I was making like 55k I was like oh I'm
never gonna ever need or like make need
to make more money this because I'm set
uh because you know I was you know
single no kids and whatnot so like that
amount of money just for me I was just
like oh my goodness
so I kind of kept that kind of same
lifestyle and why not until I moved here
to New York and like like I'm saying I'm
trying to get at it because it's way too
expensive uh but if it's like as I feel
like if you chase more so like
fulfillment and career like the money
will come and if you're smart with your
money like you kind of have like the
perfect you got the perfect setup there
too
yeah with with me for me to answer that
question with me is I grew up extremely
poor so I'm I I I come from humble
beginnings so because of that mindset
I'm always hungry I'm always hungry to
make more money that's just how my
mindset works because but but I do care
about my I always talk about work life
balance so that you can make all the
money in the world but if your work life
balance sucks I'm gonna run away from
that I want a good work-life balance
that pays I want a job that pays good
but also has a good work life balance
because I don't want to be anybody
miserable I can make 500k and be
miserable doesn't make any sense yeah
that's that's definitely not worth it
that's yeah exactly and I feel that this
is a good question here GPS how do I put
cloud projects on my portfolio without
racking up charges and if I need to have
Services running constantly or snapshot
what I make them shut down then talk
about them yeah you don't need to have
projects like you don't need to have
like an Instagram clone running on your
service 24 7 or any in your Azure
subscription what you need is you need
to learn something right and for and in
order for you to learn something you
don't necessarily have to have it
um running all the time but what I also
tell people is like
if you have to pay twenty thirty dollars
in Cloud charges a month like in
exchange to learn like is that not worth
it if you're thinking like twenty thirty
dollars a month down the road could be
making you like a six-figure income like
was that not worth it so I feel like
people are scared but if you put in
budgets if you're really reading the
pricing which is also very important
when it comes to like Cloud admin
solution architect type roles like if
you're understanding prices you're
understanding upfront how much you may
be able to pay for this and if you're
putting in that money then and you have
like a budget I don't know 50 a month or
whatnot
I think it's worth it but there's also
like there's a lot of free tiers that
you can use there's a lot like a lot of
services now have serverless or
consumption based uh types of plans that
you can run things on so it's only as
you execute them you get charged there's
a lot of ways and also like Microsoft
learn has a lot of sandboxes on the last
video that I made that's called you
should learn Linux it's basically a
bunch of examples from Microsoft learn
sandbox if you go and do it in the
sandbox understand what's going on and
then just kind of like blog document
right about build your skill set that
way you can have 10 sandboxes of one
hour every single day at microsoftware
so many exercises you can go out and do
there there's plenty there's I don't
think there's really reasons for people
to say like
I can't get Hands-On because I don't
want to spend money because their
options are there
but don't be afraid to spend money to
educate yourself like if you're not
gonna go to school that means you're not
gonna be racking up those like a crazy
school debt and you're not gonna go to
boot camp and whatnot then putting in a
couple maybe a couple tens of dollars a
month to learn it's worth it don't be
afraid of it
uh let's see here I was gonna say don't
be don't be afraid to invest money in
yourself because the only One's Gonna
Pay like sometimes you have to invest
money in yourself if you want to level
up unfortunately that's just how it is
with some certain things
yeah like I was about to say this but
someone just said I find it silly when
people can easily spend 100 bucks on
dinner drinks but have excuse they can't
afford 100 course exactly like if you
add up all the subscriptions you got
that's probably close to 100 ish maybe
even a little bit more
uh and that would have been like you
know a couple of projects in Azure like
20 in Azure a month will get you really
a long way like think of like the cloud
resume challenge project that thing runs
for like less than a dollar a month like
I've I've had that thing running for
maybe like two two maybe about two years
now maybe a year and a half and I think
it's probably like 13 total so there's a
lot of projects out there that you can
run for like long term and not be
spending the amount of money that people
think I think just Twitter and like Tech
social media does the disservice of
making people believe that if you go
into the cloud you're gonna rack
thousands and thousands and tens of
thousands of dollars in bills it's like
if you're careful you know what you're
doing which you're learning about this
stuff anyway and putting budgets and
whatnot like you're gonna be fine you're
gonna be fine
um let's see here
look looking to leave my job because of
no work-life balance my company expects
24 7 tech support oh my goodness this
sucks 24. have you been on call Kev do
you do you have any Uncle stuff now
yeah yeah I'm on call here I'm on call
not now but I'm gonna call everything
every couple weeks imagine you had to
take a ticket right now
it's not that bad though here's not that
bad
um I was gonna say um I I don't know if
you watch any of my other videos but I
have cloud videos so yeah I have some
cloud videos
with with Ryan
um with Ryan O'Connell
not sure if you know who that guy is I
mean if it's in
one of your cloud videos like you see in
all of them
yeah yeah then I guess I probably have
yeah that's right it's Ryan o'connelly's
is it MVP for Microsoft so I have videos
with him we made videos together on
cloud stuff like budgeting creating a VM
Dash and stuff like that you know take
advantage of the free resources don't
pay anything right yeah there's plenty
there's plenty of free I would also
encourage people to like look into
uh a lot of cloud providers have these
programs while they're offered free
credits as well so like AWS Community
Builders uh in exchange for documenting
your learning and helping the community
like they have these programs that you
can be part of uh which I would
recommend people take take a look at
uh well so I was gonna say something
else but I've totally forgot about this
uh let me see here oh here's a good one
ask your employer if they offer access
to learning platforms like udemy or
plural site that was really cool about
the help desk gig too because they were
they would give you I think a thousand
dollars a year for you to use what in
whatever you wanted in terms of
education book certification exams
courses anything like that and that's
just something like they offered and I
feel like in a lot of help desk gigs
they kind of know that people are
looking to up skill so it's like a it's
kind of like a like a perk that they
want to offer anyway
um to like stay competitive so it's
definitely like one thing like if you
can learn on their dime you absolutely
should
definitely absolutely don't buy any
YouTube coursesdamn look at that hate uh I don't I want
to do a course but man I don't know how
you find the time to do it so what what
do you so how much time are you spending
a day like working on your course what's
that look like
uh the courses are already out on you
Demi I'm gonna work on a new one I'm
gonna start that probably next month
yeah um because I'm busy right now so
next month I'm gonna work on that
um hopefully I get that going and then I
got invited to speak again so I gotta go
I gotta I gotta go to Philly and talk
I'm doing a presentation over there um
mostly
um next year I go to Las Vegas and go to
black hat because they invited me to
black hat this year but I couldn't go it
was so busy that's cool I wanted a
little black hat next year my hair it's
actually it's free it was free for me so
I had to pay anything but um it's
because of LinkedIn because I use
LinkedIn a lot because I socialize with
everybody on LinkedIn so like that
LinkedIn branding stuff
does help me because I get a lot of free
free stuff I got invited for an event
next week I'm going to an event next
week so it's free for me so you know
take advantage of it if it's free you're
gonna invite me to go get some steak and
and some food man I'm gonna say yeahall right Matt we're gonna have to call
this one we've been doing this for like
hour 20 uh we were kind of aiming for an
hour but looks like we had a lot of
questions so we wanted to get to them
but thank you Kev appreciate it uh of
course it's been absolute blast I gotta
have you on here again maybe we'll keep
doing this uh I don't know maybe
once a quarter or something like that
would be dope definitely well uh we'll
be in touch but yeah chat thanks for
hanging out okay thanks for hanging out
uh we'll be in touch soon
everyone I'll see you next week peace
out
there