How to query CLI output in Azure #shortsso let's say we were looking for all the
resource groups in Azure that contained
the word Ubuntu in the name for this we
can use AZ group list followed by the
query parameter which will allow us to
provide James path Expressions we're
going to use the contains function which
allows us to search a string for a
specific substring in this case the
string will be that name property and
the substring would be Ubuntu followed
by the function part we're going to
actually Define the expression that
first value is going to be the display
name so what it shows on the output of
the CLI and then that second value is
going to be the actual property that
we're looking for so in this case name
as well awesome this will probably be a
little bit more useful if there's no
formatting so let's do Dash o tsv which
will move that formatting for us and you
can actually use this to save it into a
variable
and there you have it