How to become a Cloud Solution Architect | AWS, Azure, GCP 2022cloud architects are the people that are
in charge of translating business needs
into
cloud solution blueprints while
implementing best practices when it
comes to cloud computing and also
respecting the needs and requirements
and limitations that customers have and
on top of that offering recommendations
that customers might not even think
about right
so this is why
whenever someone asks me hey gwen i'm a
complete beginner to cloud and i'm
looking to land a cloud architect role i
tend to tell them that architect roles
typically require years of experience
and aren't really beginner friendly i'm
not here to discourage you if you feel
like you meet the requirements by all
means go ahead and apply
i just feel like beginners get confused
because of two reasons one cloud rolls
are
extremely vague and not very well
defined and and two i think one of the
most popular certifications out there
for cloud beginners is the aws solution
architect associate and once they pass
the the certification they think like oh
i have to go get a role that has that
architect name in it right um but anyway
in this video i'm gonna explain what
architect does and some resources that
you can use to improve your architecting
skills
with all that being said hi i'm gps and
welcome to a new video all right so in
the intro i gave you a definition of
what a cloud architect is uh so let me
give you an example now so let's pretend
that i am the cloud architect on my team
my manager comes along and she tells me
hey gwen we've been told that there are
two team members on a different team
that currently spend about two to three
hours downloading some files that are
generated from a product that we own and
then submitting those files to an
external website
and we've been tasked with automating
this can you please come up with a
solution on how to implement this right
so right right now what i want you to do
is pause this video and kind of think
about what would be your next step right
and while you're at it make sure to like
and subscribe and share this video with
someone who is interested in cloud
computing okay
so anyway let's get back on track here
um
if your first thought is like oh i could
probably code something i could probably
containers cicd pipelines all these
kinds of things and you know slow your
role right because let's think about
what we know here we know that files are
generated from a product that we have so
we know where the files come from and
then we have two team members that are
grabbing those files in manually uh
submitting them to an external website
right so we know where the files come
from so we know point a and then we know
point b where they need to end but we
don't know anything about the middle
ground there right and that's our task
as a cloud architect is to have these
conversations ask the right questions
and to pair project requirements with
cloud services that are out there right
so for example
cloud there are i think 10 container
services that you can use to deploy
containers on azure and that's just
azure alone how do you know which one is
the right one for your solution
half of that is understanding all the
the possible services that are out there
and you know understanding the pros and
cons use cases and all those kinds of
things and part of those and the other
half is understanding the requirements
of your project right so for example
let's say we've decided that what we're
going to end up doing is having the
product that we own that generates the
files
save those files to a blob container
that has a hot access tier right then
we're going to have two azure functions
one azure function is going to process
file submitted to the external website
and then the second azure function is
going to grab the processed file and
move it to a blob container that has an
archive accessed here because we want to
save money of course now
we've figured that out but what we need
to now figure out is what is going to be
in the middle of those two functions
that are going to allow them to
communicate
typically this is implemented with a
messaging service and when it comes to
messaging services one of the first
questions we should ask is are we
working with messages or are we working
with events and this isn't something
specific to azure this is specific to or
general for all messaging services out
there right so messages typically
contain some kind of raw data and these
this raw data is either going to be
stored or is used to tell the
application that's going to consume the
message how to consume it or what to do
with it right and then events are more
like lightweight messages and they're
usually just used to like signal that
something's happened the state has
changed the status has changed and they
don't really care about how they're
consumed right so in this case when we
think about our function our first one
is going to tell our second one hey this
file is ready to be moved to archive
this is the name so we're going to stick
with messages here now through our sort
of triaging and having conversations and
figuring out what exactly needs to be
automated we've also learned that we
don't care about the order of these
files
we just care about them being processed
at some point right then being moved to
storage archive once they've been
processed at one point at some point
right this is important because
services messaging services that have
these ordered guaranteed features first
in for style fifo fifo tend to be more
expensive
so in our case something like azure
service bus which uh guarantees order is
probably or overkill for a solution so
we can save some money if we use
something like azure storage queues
which guarantees delivery delivery at
least once well messing up my words
there anyway so this is the kind of
mindset and the kind of questions that
you have to learn to ask half of that is
you know understanding the services and
half of that is understanding the
requirements and these are things that
you just kind of pick up along the way
using different projects using different
services and things like that right but
then you have to multiply that across
not just you know which messaging
service which compute service uh which
storage service which networking service
all these kinds of things right if your
customer wants a traditional model and
you figure out that using a service
model not only meets the requirements
but saves them money you should be also
able to
advise that recommendation so this is
why
cloud architect roles tend to require
years of experience now again following
up with what i mentioned that cloud
rules aren't really defined
a cloud architect at a large company
might be really just tasked with
architect tasks while a cloud developer
at a small team might be doing the
architecting a cloud architect that a
small team might be also doing the
development and the implementation
things like that yeah so
it's a very gray area there um
but
all this to say arctic rules tend to
require years of experience
anyway so now that we understand what a
cloud architect does and sort of what
you can expect in terms of like things
that you should know how do you go about
building this skill set well yes i think
there's maybe three or four things i can
probably say here one is that every
single cloud platform out there is going
to have an architecture center go spend
a lot of time in them i was recently
just looking at one
right before i was working on this video
because i wanted to see some
architectures that implement uh
container apps
oftentimes these architectures will have
diagrams alternatives considerations
even steps on how to implement
architecture
go take a look at that two is read lots
and lots and lots and lots of
documentation for example in that
container
service like 10 options for containers
that i mentioned for azure you could
read documentation of all the 10
container services there are also like
comparison docs which will say when to
use for example this one on on like when
to use aks azure kubernetes service over
azure container instances over container
apps and then you can sort of dial it
down and then go read the documentation
on the specific service but hey if you
have downtime
by all means go and read just random
documentation it's great um the third
thing here would be to experiment on
your own in terms of like if you have
projects that you've already built and
you you know how it works and you know
the expected behavior grab one of the
services that you're using there and
just swap it out for a different service
and see what changes is the
is it more expensive is it least
expensive is it not as efficient what
anything that you can sort of figure out
and learn from that
learn and document this is my fourth
recommendation here
write write a lot because your ability
to communicate ask questions and to
express and explain your solutions is
going to matter as a solutions architect
and of course get certified i'm a big
fan of certifications uh azure has
solution architects certifications so
does aws go and take oh so is gcp sorry
i don't use gcp much as an example
because i don't have any experience with
it um
but it's it's just less important right
so go get certified um yeah that's
really all the recommendations i have uh
i want to make more videos about cloud
rules so let me know which ones you're
looking for
and that's it for this video