Are Cloud Agnostic Certifications worth it?i personally don't think cloud agnostic
certifications or certifications from
cloud platforms that aren't in the top
three so we're talking aws azure or gcp
are worth it if this is like your first
cloud certification
maybe you're already in cloud you
already know and then you want to i
guess
upskill with a you know cloud agnostic
or a different kind of certification by
all means but if you're a beginner and
you're looking where to invest your
money and your time which you know even
if we're talking about like a
fundamental certification with one of
the big three it's around 99 usd that's
a good amount of money like you're going
to want to put that towards your best
bang for your buck the thing that helps
stick out the most and get the most
recognition on your resume and without a
doubt that is going to be
any aws azure or gcp certification
compared to like a cloud agnostic one
also when it comes to pricing a lot of
the big platform ones are around 160 to
like 200 for an associate level
certification whereas i think i saw the
cloud plus somewhere around 350 usd
which in my mind is a significant amount
of money and if you're gonna put that
significant amount of money in time
towards something it should be something
that gets you the most value out of it
the content of these cloud access
certifications is great like i'm not
saying that they're not worth it that
they're terrible certifications what not
no definitely not i just think when
you're going to invest time and money
into something you want to do something
that gets you the most back for it right
and don't think just because you study
for one certification that later on you
can't go and get another one in a
different cloud of course not like for
example me
i studied i was working help desk study
for my aws certified developer associate
took me like six months
if you want my notes it's on learn to
cloud go to phase three you'll see a pdf
with all my notes it's like 60 pages
and then i used the knowledge for that
and for an interview at a place that
used azure and then i got the job and
then you know the rest is history and a
lot of these certifications
from the big platforms will teach you a
lot of fundamentals and a lot of just
cloud knowledge in general that will
translate into other providers so you
know like i mentioned i was able to
leverage the stuff that i learned for
the adv certification into working with
azure
and it's still helped me throughout my
entire career
but that first step to picking like that
first certification definitely stick to
one of the big three
again it's all about getting the most
out of your time and money and where the
market currently is at
you can't go wrong with any of the big
three
anyway super short video today i'm still
figuring out my setup i'm at a new
apartment i'll have a new tour soon and
whatnot but thank you for watching and i
will see you in the next one