3 Financial Literacy Resources That Changed My Lifelet's first let me first give you my
financial context because I feel like a
lot of people fail to provide that
information when they want to give out
some Financial advice or some
recommendations on Financial Resources
because the impact that a financial
resource can have on my life will be
much different than yours if we have
very different Financial
experiences or relationships or whatever
you want to call it right so for example
I have no debt so maybe uh some advice
on saving or investing will have a
different impact on me than it will have
on you because your priority might be to
work on that debt and since I don't have
the two then you know that's different
right so for context
I have no dependence so all my income is
for myself I don't have a mortgage I
live in New York City and I rent I don't
have any significant debt the most
amount of debt I've ever had was
probably when I financed a 100 gram I
think it was around like thirty five
four thousand dollars so I've never had
more debt than that uh I've always sort
of kept a lifestyle where I've spent
less than
uh I've made and that's been ever since
I started like looking into Financial
education so this was2017-ish 2018.
maybe a little bit before that right but
prior to that I've always been just oh
the concept is to save to save to save
to save to save right so anyway that's
the context there so the First Resource
I want to show you all is called this
book called I will teach you to be rich
Let's go to the cover I will teach you
to be rich it's by Remy Sethi I see this
book as a framework I read all the
chapters and there are some chapters
that don't apply to me but the the whole
concept is like
Finance doesn't need to be this thing
that you over complicate yourself you
can
sort of build a system for yourself that
just works and you don't have to like be
tinkering with it every single week and
that so
that's why it starts off like would you
rather be sexy or Rich like do you want
like a super sophisticated and complex
Financial uh framework for yourself or
do you want just something that'll make
you money long term so that's how the
book of sets itself up
but I understood how to take advantage
of the benefits that my credit card
provides and I looked into other credit
card options and I know I opened up an
account with a different company after I
read this
uh I opened up a high yield savings
account because of this book also I
learned how to optimize my 401k and I
opened up a Roth IRA oh that's another
thing I work a nine to five so I don't
have my own business or anything like
that so that is different that might be
different for other people too so that
why this is advice might work for me
might not work for you whatever right so
that's important as well
um
oh conscious spending big part I used to
worry a lot about like often buying
maybe small things or I would perhaps
let myself from buying I don't know like
a book or video game that was maybe 20
40 or something like that but when it
came to like these massive items like I
don't know a TV or something like that
like I wouldn't
like I for somehow would justify
spending a significant amount of money
versus like small so that relationship I
was able to further understand because
of this chapter of conscious spending I
like that
and then under say while you're sleeping
was all about sort of like how you can
automate your system and that way you
don't have to like worry about it
because I don't know about y'all but if
I have to worry about what I'm doing
with every single paycheck I feel like
it's very overwhelming and also just a
waste of time whereas you can automate
these things right
so and anyway there's a bunch of other
chapters in here that I really I really
did enjoy uh so I highly recommend you
looking into it I would say this book
doesn't dive deep into any aspect but it
gives you enough information like a
primer and enough information for you to
go and explore further
after this book I read the Motley Fool
investment guide I found the Motley Fool
I think through a podcast and I really
liked just the way that they would
explain and talk about
financial news week to week so then they
had mentioned like oh we have the
investment guidebook if you want to have
a like understanding of what investing
actually is
and because at that time I was already
in a situation where the money that I
made was enough for me to fund my 401k
my Roth my savings cover all my bills
and I had money left over so I wanted to
learn more about investing
outside of like 401k and retirement
accounts in general so yeah Molly fool
investment guide it's great it gives you
like a high level
uh overview and of it's pretty easy read
too of just different concepts like the
stock market different types of stocks
different types of investing it's more
for the person who wants Like the quote
boring type of investing like you want
to make uh gains long term and you're
not trying to day trade you're not
trying to you know yeah long-term
investing I highly recommend it
but if you don't want a paid resource
though these books are not expensive I
think they were like 20 or something
like yeah each one if you go to this
website this website is something that I
probably check
more like I've read those two books and
sometimes when I do need to reference
something that was covered in this book
I'll go reread them
but Investopedia is a website that I
look for all the time like I was just in
here if you go to the education tab it
has like all these Concepts that you can
learn a lot more about I was just
checking out the Roth IRA because I'm my
mom wants to open one up so I was
reading about this again
and I remember using this website
alongside the books
it's sort of like when
I was reading the Linux for hackers book
to learn
you know Linux and Bash and then I was
using the Linux command line book as
sort of an additional reference like
there was a command and then like for
Hacker's book that was covered but I
wanted to learn more about it I would
use the Linux command line book so a
similar relationship here or I was using
the I will teach you how to be rich and
the investment guide and whenever there
was Concepts that I wanted to learn a
little bit more about I would come into
vistapedia look up the concept and then
just read that page it's all free they
have paid resources as well I haven't
really used those so no recommendations
there but the like there's just so much
in here any concept you can think of in
terms of investing Finance in general is
here highly recommend it
all right that's it uh really it's all I
use sometimes I'll go on YouTube but I
don't really have any YouTubers that I
can 100 recommend I feel like these
books covered everything that I needed
and finance is something that I feel
like I have a good handle on now it also
takes time I'll say that give yourself
time like just because you read these
doesn't mean like immediately you're
gonna
have a system that works for you and
oftentimes you still will need to Tinker
with it
um you know your life will change so
your financial situations will also
change alongside with it uh but yeah
this is what works for me
and has taught me everything that I need
to know
and that's it hopefully there's
something useful here for you