9 Azure Certifications, Still No JobI did nine Azure certifications last
year what why I'm mentally exhausted and
yet it feels I have done nothing
anything worth I wonder if it would lead
anything or eventually would matter nine
certifications so you clearly have a
discipline to study which is awesome but
I always tell people two certifications
is more than enough you gotta do
certification project certification
project once you've got two solid
projects you got your two certs you got
a year of some kind of technical
experience I feel like you have the
whole pack and then you got a good
resume you got a good LinkedIn you got
you have the whole package to go and
kind of apply to that first Cloud role
or that first thing that will give you
exposure to Cloud after like your first
support role right