How I became a Cloud Engineer with no college degreehi everyone welcome to a new video it's
gonna be a little bit different this
isn't a tutorial or a study notes so if
you interested in that skip to the next
video or don't watch this one if this is
more of a life update kind of thing I
want to do reflect on the journey of how
I actually got into the cloud
engineering space and my background is a
little different as you see the title I
had no experience I had no degree I
still don't have a degree and going into
the field so I figured if anyone else is
out there and they kind of find
themselves in a very similar situation
providing a little bit of transparency
and insight into how I got into it might
be able to enable you I've broken it
down into five sort of tips three are
for getting actually into the field and
then two are once you are in the field
what could enable you to take the next
step or take different risks and such so
the first one is going to be try to lean
on resources that you already have a lot
of people are in already like a
developer role helpdesk role a sysadmin
role and networking role and want to
move into cloud sometimes at the places
that you are already in they'll have
someone who is working on cloud maybe
there's an infrastructure team maybe
there's a cloud engineering team already
see if you could maybe like negotiate
some downtime with your supervisor maybe
you can get an hour a week to just see
what they're working on and it's like
the cloud seems to be what the cloud
team is working on I was at I helped
this job it was like an entry-level
helpdesk job and I when I had downtime I
was able to sort of shadow any team I
wanted to and my only interest really
was the infrastructure team because I
got along with them and they were moving
some stuff into AWS so they allowed me
to really see what was going on
that led me to getting AWS certified
which I would also recommend doing get
certified in whatever cloud platform you
want to become certified in and I got
kind of an introduction to how it works
thanks to certification and thanks to
being exposed to AWS with this team then
this rules into my second tip which is
widen the pool of areas that you are
applying to everyone wants to work at
Facebook in Google in Amazon and
Microsoft and Apple and those are great
if that's your goal definitely go for it
but that was completely off the table
for me because I didn't have a degree I
don't have a degree I I didn't even go
to high school here I was living in
South America I did two semesters there
I dropped out of school and moves back
to to the States so I barely had any
work experience really on paper
so I was like all right let me try to go
for these smaller mid-sized companies
maybe a little work better for me and I
heard back from a lot of these I will
say that I was sort of at a time where
getting certified and getting at the
cloud computing was still very very
niche so this was about three or four
years ago
so yeah I had that going for me but
definitely applying to smaller mid-sized
companies worked well for me and I feel
like it's a little less competitive and
they're a lot lighter on what
requirements you need to even get into
the field and what se experience you
need and sometimes they're willing to
take a bigger risk on people just
because they need Talent
so yeah give that a try my third tip is
be open to what roles you're going for
maybe not your next step isn't
necessarily a cloud engineering
computing role but maybe it's like cloud
adjacent like it'll give you exposure
into it I know for me I help desk job
got certified and then I was applying to
roles I was applying a bunch of cloud
rolls but I was also playing - any roles
that would give me exposure to cloud and
I landed on the role that I'm in now
well the company that I'm in now where
there it was a sysadmin role obviously
would have to do sysadmin and some IT
stuff but IT Help Desk things but they
also mentioned in the bullet points
there and in the pith in the listing is
if you have any interest in cloud we're
currently migrating and you'll have
exposures to that as well so for my
highlight I landed the job I actually
did like really well in the interview
and that could be a whole video on
itself but I you know did Welling
interview I landed the job and then for
the first year I was not only taking
care of all the roles them I all the
tasks on my roles
defined but also I was volunteering to
be on any additional project that would
give me exposure to cloud and I remember
working a lot like that lot that year or
time on the weekends obviously I'm in a
privileged position where I don't have
kids depending on me or like a partner
or anything depending on me so I really
had all my time to myself and I wouldn't
necessarily say it was a healthy
behavior because I remember gaining like
a lot of weight and being anxious but I
learned so much and I got so much
exposure and and sometimes there's that
sacrifice that you do have to make in
order to make the next up in your life
so that was definitely worth it but I
would have not landed in that position
or not gotten exposure if it weren't for
me
open to not necessarily landing a cloud
role but getting into a role that would
get me there eventually and that leads
into my what is this fourth tip well I
guess this is kind of like the same is
sometimes you don't need to move the
company sometimes you can move up
eventually I was promoted into a clown
engineering role but that happened
within the same the same company so that
might be a possibility too
my fourth tip is once you're in your
role and this is I guess for any rolling
any and not specific to engineering is
be smart with your money I was never
like literate when it came to personal
finance up until a couple of years ago
where I started making some money enough
to save and I was like maybe just saving
isn't enough so I started learning about
like retirement accounts and investing
in stuff like that and you know now I'm
in a position where if I take risks I
have a great cushion to catch me in case
I become unemployed or something or I
stop making money but yeah that's kind
of just like that's more like a life tip
but I would say just because sometimes
these engineering roles come with
salaries that are pretty big yeah it'd
be smart with your money that's number
four
and number five also is like once you do
land your role lean on your community to
continue to educate yourself I'm not
telling you to be studying constantly
every single day learn every single new
tool but be in the know stay updated
you know chat with other people who are
in the field or chat with other newbies
or chat with other professionals
whatever it feels work feels good for
you utilize things like LinkedIn and
social media in general are great ways
to tapping into the community but
network and and you'll never know what
opportunities come from that I speak
from my own personal experience I
tweeted about this as well as like since
starting this channel I've built an
amazing network and so many
opportunities have popped up for me in
order to say take a next step of maybe
being employed as a college and you're
doing it completely on my own which is a
step that I'm taking at the moment so
you'll never know what comes from
networking and building yeah those words
those are my five I guess bullet points
us too
how to get into the field and once
you're into the field how to keep
growing don't be afraid to go for it
apply for apply for anything really I I
applied to a lot of things and I got
rejected to a bunch of things but you
know becoming comfortable with rejection
is a skill set on its own so go for it
just go for it um anyway reach out to me
on Twitter if you'd like to chat or if
you need to talk about really how you
know some struggles or anything really
hundreds of cloud is still going on I
think I mentioned that in my previous
video if you are looking to get hands-on
with a couple of projects or the
community or talk to us we're over 230
members now and you know we're dialing
the code of conduct right now to make
sure it's a safe and open environment
for everyone and you have my word that
I'm fully fully committed to that and
it's an open source project so no one's
making money off of it it's really just
a bunch of volunteers putting in the
time and resources to grow it so yeah
hundreds of cloud comm if you want to
learn more cloud things as always you
can find me on Twitter at me by GPS and
I will see you in the next video