How I Spend My Tech Salarytoday we are going to be talking about
how I spent my monthly salary and just
for context I'm single so no dependents
no spouse and I rent in New York so
crazy taxes crazy uh cost of life and
whatnot here I don't have any debt
whatsoever so like no car uh payments no
mortgages no school loans nothing I have
like 450 and whatnot on a credit card
but that's it so my financial framework
works for me but I don't necessarily
think this would work for everybody and
I don't want anyone to take any of this
as advice this is more so just hey if
you're looking for kind of ideas of how
other people manage their money this is
my example of that so uh because I live
in New York and because I'm single and
because I file as I'm single and whatnot
I
a good amount of my money gets taken out
for taxes and then also 401K
contributions and whatnot so I make
about 1400 1400 500 14 500 ish and then
I take home about 9 200 9 300 and what
not
and again that that chunk there is taxes
and 401K contributions after that I
manually move about four thousand five
hundred anywhere from four thousand to
about four thousand five hundred dollars
to different accounts so I have two high
yield savings accounts one is for my
like three months emergency fund so that
should be rent and expenses for three
months that's there and then I have one
for savings
just like saving towards like a major
per um purchase or whatnot at the moment
it's my house well it's the house that I
want to buy so manifesting my house
um so this 4 000 ish whatever amount it
is that I I invest or I take to invest
or save like that split depends on where
I'm at in life and like how much I want
to save and how much I want to invest at
the moment the split is around 3 000
saving and then a thousand and investing
or a thousand five hundred into
investing but it wasn't always the case
I only recently a couple months ago
decided like hey I really do want to buy
a house so I've been changing up the uh
the framework there but yeah that's the
biggest one in terms of like my
investing it's boring it's you know this
whole concept of um time in Market over
timing the market that's kind of it I
read this in like investing books uh I
read one by like the Motley Fool I can't
remember it's like a blue book I can't
remember what it's called and then I
read this book called
um I will teach you how to be rich and
then those kind of helped me put
together my sort of financial framework
but yeah uh it's really boring ETFs and
funds like that's it I just grab a fixed
amount and I add it to the account every
other week
that's kind of it
um after that like that's kind of like
my biggest expense and this whole idea
of like
paying myself first which was a concept
that I got from that book I will teach
you how to be rich and I like the idea
of like as soon as my money hits it goes
to my own accounts like I'm not like
first like paying bills and whatnot and
I know I'm only in that situation
because you know I don't have kids I
don't have major debt and all these
kinds of things so I'm very much very
grateful and whatnot but I'm also trying
to be like smart like I don't want to be
like as soon as my
my money hits like oh I can go buy this
or I can go get this I'm like no like
like pay yourself first kind of concept
obviously how someone would pay
themselves first and what that looks
like for them is different but this is
what I do for myself
after that my next biggest expense is
rent two thousand five hundred dollars I
live in New York yes I know I could buy
a house down South for with five
bedrooms for this amount of money I
understand but where I'm at in life I
really should enjoy living in New York
so
yeah I I can I can put up that amount of
money for rent here for now it's not
gonna be like that forever I don't think
New York is the place where I would want
to raise a kid and have a family one not
but for now I like it I like the social
life and those the things that being in
New York has brought to my social life
um so for now it's amount of money I pay
after this I spent about uh anywhere
from like 700 to even up to a thousand
dollars and I'm ashamed to say this but
for social well-being in terms of like
any extracurricular activities I want to
do if I want to go off I want to uh go
to a bar if I want if I have to take
Ubers because it's too late too early
whatsoever flights to somewhere fun to
travel somewhere if I want to spend a
weekend somewhere if I wanna
um you know I don't know get a meal
somewhere go to like I don't know fancy
restaurant or or take my partner out on
a date or what not anything like
anything that's for my social well-being
um also like books uh any any of these
purchases will go under that bucket
anywhere from like 700 to like a
thousand dollars I do want to be smarter
with that amount of money uh but for now
I'm like I think all my life I've been
just like so strict so strict with like
oh don't spending money save save save
save then now I'm trying to
you know kind of like enjoy the hard
work and whatnot um I think you know
your parents influence on your
relationship with money is big and like
something that they don't really teach
you in school to like how to you know
manage money or whatnot so I had to
teach all these things for me so I had
to kind of remove the the mindset of
like oh if you have money you should
save it and not do absolutely anything
else that kind of was kind of like
instilled in me from my parents
um so yeah trying to enjoy it a little
more like this month I bought myself an
iPad
uh with that budget uh but it's great
because I can have all my like
um you know Linux books and and whatnot
on here yeah like I read like
um a lot on this and it's really nice to
just be able to take it everywhere like
I was reading some Cosmos DB stuff on
here too earlier today for this project
that I'm working on
um but yeah
so anyway that's the third biggest
expense I see and then after that I have
a couple like smaller ones uh groceries
about 300 400 a month I probably want to
increase this just a little bit more
that and then decrease the social
well-being one so instead of going out
as much as I do to eat be home and cook
more meals and whatnot that would also
be better for my physical and health and
whatnot uh then I have like internet
about 150 phone bill 100 fifty dollars
uh electricity bill about 150 as well
wow a lot of these are like 150 large
and whatnot
um then I have like subscriptions Adobe
YouTube Spotify stream Labs each one of
these are anywhere from like 10 to 20
dollars
and then I pay my editor anywhere from
100 to 200 a month depending on how much
work and what we're working on that
month and whatnot
so yeah that's uh really how I spend my
money uh I don't want anyone to take
this as advice more so just take it as
an example
um but yeah there's there's one piece of
advice I would say is
there's so so many books out there that
you can read
um to like really understand about money
and how you can be smarter with it but
read a couple of them don't just read
one and be like this is absolutely like
the Bible when it comes to money and
whatnot because everyone's situation is
different all right
that's it I'll see in the next video