How I got a job at Microsoftwhat's going on everybody today we're
going to talk about how i landed my job
at microsoft welcome to a new video i'm
gps
that was the wrong way but anyway you
get it uh all right so it starts in 2019
towards the end of the year in december
the azure advocates were hosting this
thing called 25 days of surveillance and
it was basically you would submit like
solutions using github uh that of these
problems that they they've sort of
proposed uh using serverless technology
and i met uh simona coten who used to be
a microsoft advocate and now has moved
on to a different team um through that
just on twitter kind of like back before
like submitting and then she would reply
to my tweets like oh great work and
things like that i hold simona so near
and dear to my heart thank you so much
simona for the impact that you've had in
my career um
i don't think i would be here without
you so thank you um but anyway uh yeah
and and and so that happens is you know
it's about a month and then i realized
like oh i really want to keep doing this
i i really like like showcasing my work
to to to the community and things like
that and i got a lot of help and support
like it feels great like it feels like i
i can learn better this way um fast
forward to 2020 in march the quarantine
happens and i find myself with more free
time because no commute so i was like i
want to start a youtube channel and i do
i start making weekly videos sometimes
twice a week on azure functions because
i was utilizing that at work as a cloud
engineer to build uh solutions i started
making videos um and like bunch of bunch
of videos fast forward to a couple
months maybe around the i think june i
think it was around my birthday remember
that i made two videos that have gone
since then viral i have like almost 100
000 views each
the how i became a cloud engineer with
no club with no degree and the how to
become a cloud engineer and then scott
hanselman
scott hansen is probably one of the most
famous technical people out there
he's like such a great teacher such
a solid person as well like um he
invites me on to azure friday which is
the show that he's been doing for years
uh and inside the microsoft azure
channel and we just talk about the video
we talk about like what i'm doing with
youtube and like creating cloud
computing content and things like that
and yeah and it really was just like he
just danced hey you want to come on
azure friday i saw your videos fantastic
that's literally it um
so i mean i guess the biggest thing for
me has been
one putting myself out there putting in
the work but also just people willing to
lend a hand because they felt like i
deserved it for whatever reason it might
be um
so yeah after after that i also got
nominated for microsoft mvp which i got
in august and then the azure friday
thing happened also in august for me it
was like so many things like just
aligned and
um a lot of it i was in control of and a
lot of it was just i wasn't right it was
up to like everyone else who helped me
out so that was fantastic
fast forward to september uh the
advocates were doing this serverless
september thing uh and you might be
familiar with christian wamba his he
goes by code beast um he's moved on from
microsoft since then and we're still
close friends which is fantastic um and
i guess my biggest tip here is like when
you
sort of build relationships or you
network make sure you're doing them with
proper intention and not just to get
something out of people because you
never know what they're gonna turn into
um
so yeah simona introduces me to to to
chris and then chris is like hey you
wanna you know we're live streaming
these things on friday we're sort of
just walking through some azure
functions exercises and then we're gonna
end with doing this conference on the
last day and the last week of september
and it's gonna be all serverless kind of
stuff i'm like fantastic i knew i knew
serverless i was a big fan of it
and this was going to be my first time
actually doing something like a proper
microsoft event on their channels and
stuff like that so i was like yeah let's
do it it was a lot of fun like we would
play music we would just like do
functions things we would chat we would
laugh just like a bunch of stuff um i'm
still very close with chris we talk
about music production we talk about
video games we talk about um you know
code and things like that um
so yeah i made a great friend out of
that i had the experience of
participating in that event and fast
forward to november of 2020 i joined a
cloud guru and i was doing a lot of like
different kind of content in terms of
cloud there was also some devops linux
kind of stuff thing things like that but
the biggest part of a cloud guru that i
gained was hosting the azure resume
challenge
which was this community project kind of
thing in which it was building your
your resume with azure services um and
just seeing like lots and lots of people
sort of build their own solutions uh and
and and sort of leading the way for that
i think that was great and it was a
really big talking point that i used uh
when interviewing for my current
microsoft role
uh so yeah that was great and and and it
was april and rishab you all might i've
seen richard on my channel he's one of
my closest friends um he sends me the
link to the job that i have now and then
i talked to chris and
and simone about the role they both were
able to recommend me for the role
uh again because they've had examples of
my work my youtube channel my blog but
also we've worked personally together
and and then i you know land a
conversation with the hiring manager oh
here's a fun fact again this is why i
tell y'all you never know who you're
going to meet or what you're going to
end up working in
my hiring manager now justin garrett we
actually had a like a session together
for the microsoft reactor back in march
and i think was during international
women's
uh day like around that week and we were
talking about uh the topic was
championing for change that's a hard
word to say championing for change
and also uh sarah guthols who's my
colleague was on that conversation too
and it was just such a great
introduction to my colleague and and my
manager uh because we were just talking
about something that had nothing to do
with any technical skills it was just
like how to be like you know how to how
to speak up for for change and and sort
of how like what initiatives you take
and just things like that was fantastic
so anyway i had already had a
conversation with justin without knowing
that he would eventually turn into my
manager i don't know this world is such
a small world anyway we have our first
conversation then he remembers like oh
yeah we had that convo during
international women's day and that kind
of thing um
and yeah it takes like about a month of
interviewing and and stuff like that but
then i received an offer and then
three months later actually yesterday
the 21st is three months at microsoft
um yeah i it's been a heck of a journey
and and though i'm only talking from
like 2018 to 2019 until now everything
that i did prior to that has helped like
they helped us experience this admin
experience the retail experience all of
it has helped um
and and yeah i'm very grateful for
people who have like given me a hand
which is also why i try to be that for
for the people hopefully i'm doing a
decent job at that
uh but yeah it's really the how i ended
up here um i'm cloud advocate now um
i guess like a super super simple
simplified explanation what a
classification we sort of sit between
the engineering and then the people who
use the stuff that we make and we
provide like hey uh this is how this
thing works here's a demo or what kind
of things would you like to see like we
advocate for
not only for obviously our products but
also for like what what people want to
know what people want to see about those
things too um you all have been seeing
i've like do these youtube sessions
these live sessions um everything's sort
of online now but i can't wait for us to
go back in person and then i keep
touching the microphone i'm so sorry
and doing sessions and live and then if
you're ever in new york city you can
catch one at the the microsoft reactor
here um but anyway that's that's my
story um
yeah if you have any questions comments
and things i i feel like i was battling
but anything you want me clarify let me
know i'll see you in the next video