flipping myself and it i used it as an
opportunity to keep me
accountable to get up to drink water to
stretch to go outside and get some sun
and yeah unfortunately when you stop
seeing those tweets it's because i have
fallen way off the wagon and i'm so
inundated so i need to make that a
priority thank you because i don't know
how many people are watching or
listening or reading and that's that
means a lot that means a lot because i
do it because it helps me too you know
yeah and i think when when we do things
out of like we're we're trying to not
only improve ourselves and sort of put
it out there and be transparent about it
you know you never really know who
you're going to
reach right no you never you just put it
out there and hope for the best you know
hopefully it reaches somebody i
absolutely just want to do do a quick
hide in the chat we have joanna here we
have richard uh sylvia's checking in
from michigan we got john from uh sc
south carolina south carolina all right
awesome colorado springs in the house
michael from the uk hey allison from
india we got andrew here saying
afternoon hello everyone uh do make sure
to hit a little like up the stream so so
um you know just let us know that like
how you're feeling about this kind of
stuff um anyway angela yes i know you're
at redhead now
but i'm assuming you just didn't like
just sort of roll into a role at red hat
just like casually applied and you know
not even
not even okay good uh i want to i want
to get right into it
i want to know
what was your first role um and can you
tell me a little bit about how you
landed it
oh i'll be happy to so
i was
i started out as a secretary like in an
insurance company and they used to have
all these classes you can take to learn
you know windows and unix and networking
and this and hardware and all this stuff
you know and i used to take all these
classes right because we could it was
free
and i worked for a gentleman who was a
programmer by trade but he was the vice
president of our division and you know
he was like wow you're really taking all
these classes you're getting you know
real slick you know just you know you're
so helpful now i'm i'm literally doing
tech support for my department like i'm
the secretary but i'm doing tech support
for the department he's like
how about you make this official like
you become the tech support person for
the department and because we had a
bigger department in a different
location i went to this other location
and that was like my first help desk
position um and then after that the
drive was killing me but after that i
joined a company
um i was on their health that was my
first like real like i kind of
transitioned i was still a secretary but
i was you know
help desk was the way like i learned so
much
about everything yeah technical because
i touched everything that or interfaced
with everything at some point um it was
literally the best gateway into this
seat where i'm sitting in right now with
that red hat over my shoulder it was
definitely the best
best gateway that's a that's a little uh
i don't know if people notice the red
hat is right behind
right now oh yeah
but that was
i was neat
to see it there uh you you already
tapped into like a bunch of things that
i want to talk about but i think the
first thing is you mentioned you know
sort of just learning things taking
classes doing things like that um what
what
how did you sort of i guess learn things
for that first role um like like what
was your like approach like
like like because when you're getting
started it's like well
what do i even need to learn like what i
used to need books do i need classes
like like what's your background in
education and all that kind of thing so
let me level set this happened in the
90s so
don't
i
i'm probably older than a lot of folks
on this on this stream but
that's when before youtube that was
before um a lot of the online learning
platforms that we know and we love it
was taking a class it was buying a book
it was you know reading hard back
material to learn and do that's you know
that's how it was back then
um
and you would
you know have like your test servers or
systems and you would play around with
them and you'd break fix and do things
like that so it was a lot of hands-on
you had to be self-motivated because
there was nothing there to kind of keep
you tied there was like you know not
your alerts on your phone telling you
you haven't learned today like you know
it was none of that it was none of that
it was this is something that i want to
learn i want to get better at it and the
more you do it the more you read about
it the more you try it the more you talk
about it you just you just develop an
acumen for it not you know you're not
perfect because you're every interaction
you're learning a little bit more right
and thank god for youtube because that
literally helped change my trajectory a
whole like
from zero to 100.
it was just phenomenal right yeah and
around your first world for for it where
were you did you go to college for like
the technical degree no i don't so i
have a business degree and i will say
this um i did want to be a computer
science major but i couldn't pass um
calculus
you me both let's get me started it's
like oh you can't pass calculus ma'am
i'm sorry you can't be a computer
science major so
i became a business major and business
communication so i learned about
communications i had a really
well-rounded liberal arts education um
that i'm very grateful for because
i can talk about anything to anybody you
know shout out to liberal arts colleges
because um they give you a really good
foundation now what i've been happy with
the computer science degree heck yeah
like
you know that that's what i wanted to do
but i just couldn't do calculus like
that was that that was that barrier and
you know it to some that's not really a
barrier but there are so sometimes
there's so many barriers right right so
i didn't learn tech in college i learned
it
outside of it yeah i'm on the on the job
kind of on the job on the side
absolutely it's it's interesting that
you tap into that that the aspect of
learning to communicate well because i
can imagine now as a solution to
architect
you're you're all about your ability to
communicate
your solutions and all those kinds of
things right we'll dive into a little
later because there's like so much that
we need to get into about like before
right
i'm curious about what how do you
remember interviewing for your first
like official help desk girl because i
know you mentioned you started in the
secretary and moved into your first help
desk role i i would love to sort of just
like if you can like remember things
maybe something sticks out or like what
was it like
okay
let me take you back the year is 1997
and i am
interviewing for at a chemical company
for a help desk position and the help
desk was like a room full of people um
supporting this you know multinational
company right
and
i got interviewed by this guy and he you
know he was like one of the smartest
people i'd ever come in contact with he
was just so tech and so nice and so down
to earth so fast forward i get this job
i'm i'm surrounded by people who
have done this for many years um who was
you know this was their their career of
choice um i had people who were career
switchers who came into the tech the i.t
department but we were a part of a
bigger it organization so of course we
have like the um the networking team and
the the help the bench the people who
actually do the hardware so it was a
conglomerate of folks down there working
in this huge area and
you know i got really good at
walking people through these technical
issues um this is where i started kind
of like writing my own you know s um
sops we call them
um uh what do you call it something
something i can't remember the acronym
but um you would write these things that
would help you like troubleshoot issues
and i got really good at kind of writing
these little scripts out to standard
operating procedures good lord anyway so
this is how you would fix this so that
was kind of like my first dip into
writing documentation right right like
writing these sops for myself and then
at some point it was for other you know
for the department and then i kind of
you know i got antsy like i was like
watching over on the other for the wall
you can see the bench people doing the
hardware work that's what i was doing
when i was at my old spot i learned
about you know taking computers apart
replacing hard drives and memory so i
wound up going to the bench at some
point
and i was there for a while and then
because we were contractors i had they
were going to not renew the contract
went to another place was on the help
desk and i i didn't like it so i wind up
going back and they were like no we'll
keep you we'll keep you
so
again went to another help desk position
and then that's where i got into
networking and servers and linux and
windows and dns and dhcp and all this so
i was the only help this person the
company had it was just me and this
contractor and he was kind of like yeah
well let me just show you the ropes what
we're doing here because they're going
to kick him out the door now that i'm
here yeah um and that's where it started
i literally had to you know it was a
company that earned like like 117
funerals and uh funeral homes and
cemeteries right i was the only tech
support person
and then eventually had grown i've moved
from help desk to more
networking servers i mean this was nt4
exchange five five that's literally how
i did it i learned by doing and
you know being able to show them the
acumen like this girl picks things up
really easy really quickly she can talk
to people she can communicate she knows
how you know she knows a way around the
server she can rack and she can stack
like i was gold right
i learned so much there shout out to my
old boss jeff
he was the best mentor that you could
ever have because he had faith in me
yeah
yeah give yourself a chance
yeah i think
so so those those first few years and i
remember my career as well you're you're
not only overwhelmed you're also
confused you don't really know who you
can rely on and i think i think we share
this in common in terms of like one help
desk was how we both sort of got into
where we're at now um
two also just having a manager that
believed in us but i think you don't
just sort of stumble onto that of course
it's sort of like 50 of the the the i
guess the opportunity is like having
having someone who's willing to believe
in you but that like to sort of gain
that you also have to like put in a lot
of work i remember doing like a lot of
overtime staying a little later just to
have some more faith like face-to-face
time with the manager with a different
team
getting all my stuff done as soon as i
could so i could go shadow different
teams and also just having the interest
and and sort of putting myself out there
and educating myself on my own time that
way when i did have exposure to those
other teams i knew what to ask i knew
what to look at all those kinds of
things right um
and those opportunities i'm not saying
they're unique to help desk positions
but i'm just saying like you mentioned
the amount of things that you do get
exposed to at a help desk role at a
support role at like a like like front
of the line role it's just
i can't i don't see another role in tech
that is like like like that right that
touches all the things it touches your
your entire text deck
at where you were you know where you
work and and helped us grow you're going
to be exposed to to some degree
and in that role because everything
needs support and everyone needs support
so i remember you know from uh i used to
work at like a like a health clinic so
from the nurses to the ceos cfo cio ctos
to the doctors everyone at some point
needed some sort of help desk assistance
and you never know what kind of
conversations might come up what kind of
like people skills that you develop
because of this and i am so
you you might feel this way too like
when you were in your help dust girl
you're like i hate this i can't wait to
leave
looking back at it now i'm like i am so
grateful for the time that i spent there
i would have never developed into who i
am now without that time my ability to
communicate comes from that my ability
to document there is no role out there
that requires more documentation skills
than help desk
i'm telling you from
this person came up to me at this time
approached me this way via this this
this method this was their issue this is
how they talk to me about it this is how
they encountered the issue this is how i
replicated it this is what i tried this
is what didn't work this is what didn't
work this is what didn't work this is
what it kind of worked this is what
solved it this is how i recommend it and
that that amount of questions that you
need to document is for every single
issue and every single support ticket
that comes up to you and you're not
doing just one a day right
if you're if you're assisting several
locations that you mentioned you're
doing like i don't know several an hour
and
you know that every single day and after
just think of it just in time span of a
year
how much you end up documenting right
exactly
think about it but it makes you much
more proficient it makes you more
detail-oriented because
who what if you're not here the next day
and someone calls they need to see what
you've done what you've said what you've
tried no one wants to reinvent the wheel
so being able to document those
processes and procedures so you can help
your fellow uh co-worker out you don't
want to leave them in the lurch you know
what i mean and to help future you out
you know future them future you like
you're doing everybody a service when
you're when you're being very thorough
and documenting your procedures
yeah nothing's worse than like like you
know you go into your ticketing system
and you search for or maybe someone's
resolved this you search for you find a
ticket that's like exactly
the like the maybe the title is exactly
the issue you're having but the
documentation is like oh fixed that's it
[Laughter]
do betteryeah and i went into the service i've
been to like you know with your first
sort of years in tech and i get this
question a lot i was like when do you
know you're ready to take the next step
like how much time is an ideal time to
be in like that entry-level gig before
taking the next step and i know you
mentioned that you sort of naturally
started to like progress into like the
networking stuff but does anything's
like any scenario or any time or an
experience sort of like just pop into
your mind like that's exactly when i
knew that that was the next thing that i
wanted to work on
well because i had my foot in both
worlds right when they started hiring
people
to
do help help desk uh specifically that
was their role that gave me the ability
to kind of take my foot off of that
pedal and put it somewhere else like
that was when i was able to kind of cut
the cord because now i'm on boarding
those people right because i still have
my job of you know you know
they called me a network admin because
we did networking and server
administration but um
that was when it got real because then
when i was totally separated from it
because they had a help desk and i was
you know the admin i my role just
kind of the hat just kind of came on and
i just stopped doing it because i was in
the same company now once i am
comfortable and i'm this when you know
this admin
i was like okay
i'm ready to take this show on the road
and how do you know how do you know
you feel comfortable right i was i was
at this place for a couple of years
right and i felt comfortable enough to
start one
got to see what's out there you know
um i want to work i wanted to work in a
different uh vertical so i worked in you
know business
i wanted to work in higher ed right i'd
never done it i thought it was cool they
get a lot of vacation i was like okay so
i started looking for higher education
physicians and i found one and that was
when you know this was
gosh i'm so oldthat was a while ago i think this was
maybe
early 2000s right so now i am a fully
fledged
windows systems administrator so that
you know it took about a good
i want to say back there
maybe four years maybe give or take a
few where i had had that
transition from secretary to help desk
getting that first and second real help
desk job getting that height that third
hybrid job where i kind of grew into the
the server and networking piece until it
was fully fledged you know
servers active directory vmware well
that was even before vmware came out but
it was it felt so the growth felt so
organic like it just came to me um i
think if i would have worked in a
different vertical it could have
probably been different
but that was just my path and
i learned so much along the way i
wouldn't i wouldn't change a thing
absolutely i feel like um
you know sometimes i i got this question
the other day is like did you would you
have wished to like start it in cloud
from like you know from a junior club
engineer being like your first gig in
tech and i was asked i was asked this
and i'm like no way
no way right because i was exposed to so
much the help desk and then the sis
admin gig and this is a question i want
to ask you like what role outside of
help does you think was probably like
the most impactful one and if you look
back and like what year did i or what
role did i really just
like a software like what i was like was
just like so hard but like challenged me
so much like that right um for me it was
my sis admin gig and and and
what i was i was saying like for my sis
admin gig and then moving into more of
like a junior cloud engineer and then
full cloud engineering kind of thing
like i that would have never happened
without like everything else and every
sort of tech that i was exposed to and
now full circle coming into like my
advocacy role it's like i can all talk
about tech that i probably wasn't
working on as a as a cloud engineer i
was doing like sysadmin or help desk and
things like that but i wouldn't be able
to talk about that now if i hadn't had
gone through all those kinds of things
right exactly
so i i wouldn't change it i mean i think
it's easy to
sort of like
when you want to get started like go
straight into i guess the role that you
want to get into or the feeling you want
to get into but like don't let that stop
you from
maybe trying out some other things or or
um
the only reason i say is because like
help desk is very entry level friendly
um and also i also see helped us girls
having like great educational like
benefits where it be like oh maybe we'll
pay for your certifications or we'll pay
for your educational content things like
that they're like it's so friendly in
terms of like upscaling their people
because i think managers of these of
these roles are very aware like
you know this is an entry-level role
people don't necessarily want to be here
forever or maybe some people want to
make a career out of it and that's
fantastic as well um
and they're just with it they're like
all right we know you're gonna you know
do a few years here let's get you like
to be like improve your skills and all
kinds of things i know that was the case
for my my role you mentioned that's the
case for your yeah you weren't in
support as well
but yeah moving on to that question that
i mentioned about like what which role
before your current role
i would say
was the one that just the most
challenging where you feel like you were
just
really really had to put in the work
really had to like
which role where you were like i have no
idea how i'm going to figure this out
the most i oh i can tell you that so it
was in 2011 all right and i went to this
uh university and
i was again
the only
admin but i wasn't just a windows admin
i was also the linux admin and linux was
not
my strong suit it was not my first love
right so
i had to learn so much on the job not
that i'd never experienced linux because
like i told you in my first job you know
as this network person everything mostly
you know other than
server you know mail and uh uh file
servers and things
linux was our dns and our dhcp right
that's was that was my first foray and i
kind of played with it in that windows
assistant position but it wasn't my job
they had linux admins 29 2011 i got to
this job where i had to do both windows
and linux
and i was just like
i can do this
and now we're getting to the point where
it's like there's you know there's
youtube there's more information out
there there's training i'm learning
these things on the fly and we were a we
had multiple linux distros and i was
just like nah i don't even want to do
this game because everybody does a
little bit
something a little bit different so i
was i was able to help get us to uh
settle on a
a platform um and it just happened to be
real at the time like
we're gonna be a red hat shop like i'm
not even playing these games with all
these distros so
that's where it started like i i felt it
when why was it challenging one because
i was the only person i had no one to
like gotta go to i was used to being
around people where i could be like
excuse me can you help me like yeah
there was nobody and it was very
isolating um i had to level up
in a way
that
i wasn't used to
but i felt that during the course and i
was there for eight years
so
at some point you know i saw more people
come in and it was just like this is my
thing i got so comfortable
and i felt like i had not mastered but
you know if you're somewhere so long you
feel like it's your second skin yeah i
know this stuff i know my environment i
know what i'm doing and i i loved it
like
so that was the biggest challenge for me
but it also felt like the biggest
accomplishment for me
and then
then things kind of went sideways and i
just did a whole like so that was like
but that was also a catalyst like yeah
i've gained all this knowledge
what else can i do with it right what
else can i do with it so
um
that's when i started uh
thinking about web development so that's
a whole nother story
that's all another story i it's
interesting that you mentioned linux
because it's one of those the skill sets
that i think if people take the time to
just become comfortable with it anything
else that you pick up current day is
going to be substantially easier maybe
cloud whether that be devops whether
that be even uh
you know new things like you know even
programming because you know when you
think of like bash then you think
scripting then you think programming
right
absolutely anything you want to dive
into having just a just maybe like a
just being comfortable just
understanding how to use commands how to
like
put together pipelines how to like you
know filter your output in the terminal
things like that yeah everything else
becomes substantially easier because
when you think about like you know cloud
which is all the rage these days right
um
what what is the cloud just a bunch of
linux servers right and that worked
together right so yes
literally that is all it is yeah and and
linux is something that i feel like most
people don't tap into at the beginning
of their like maybe learning i know i
didn't i just like go straight into like
you know platform like azure aws things
like that then some programming and then
later on i didn't really become
comfortable comfortable with linux until
maybe like two years ago
and at the beginning of this year i
spent like a solid two to three months
just doing something different in linux
every single day and i wrote like blog
posts every single day and now you know
coming from like full circle now working
a lot more with the azure cli and things
like that it's like everything is just
so much easier because of it and i
highly recommend if you want to dive
into any field in tech
give yourself some time to just learn
some linux learn some commands there are
some fantastic books out there but
honestly if you just use like the man
pages i don't know like what was your
approach on on on picking up linux i i
assume like you were just trying to
translate your skills from like your
windows to like all right how do i do
this to linux right yes that's basically
what it was so let me i'm gonna say this
my old boss jeff that gave me that
opportunity he said to me angela
i know you like the gui
but make sure you can do everything that
you're doing in the gui on the command
line yeah make make that up make it a
point
now
i didn't internalize that
for a good ten something years like it
i i would do it for some things and it's
just like nah it's kind of easier let me
just do it this way well think about all
the time i lost
right when i didn't internalize that
amazing piece of information
and i i kicked myself because in 2011 i
got into this position and i felt like i
had to relearn everything and it was my
own fault because he had given me such
great advice to me i thought that was it
was priceless right um another thing is
learning networking
you can't i don't want to say you can't
but not to be able to understand
networking and how packets move and
troubleshooting network issues um
without that comfort level you know
understanding what what a subnet is and
how to write like i feel people kind of
jump over that and not really understand
those two skills a little bit of
networking and a little bit of linux go
so far like how can you cloud without
either
with either of those skills
pair them together and you have infinite
possibilities i feel like
like the
i remember struggling because like
traffic wouldn't hit a virtual machine
and i we had just had no idea how to
troubleshoot it right whereas now like
now i can put together a virtual network
now i can you know divide it properly
with subnets you know uh use route
tables properly use private ip addresses
public id addresses
like appropriately um you know ssh into
things uh you know generate keys and all
these kinds of things just like your
basics and the the the thing about like
like commands like linux and networking
is that a lot of networking tasks
are sort of accomplished via commands so
you kind of get like you're working on
both at the same kind of time so they go
hand in hand um also i find networking
fun like i know a lot of people think
it's boring and things like that but i
like being able to like all right this
doesn't work i can't like i visit the ip
and i can't see it let me go figure it
out let me go see like what's wrong and
stuff like that also i really like
networking diagrams just looking at them
i think it's very neat like i want to
get like some complex ones and print
them out and like hang them up i think
they look really cool i don't know about
you
that's pretty cool but i think they they
look pretty neatbut yeah absolutely
go ahead but absolutely linux and
networking if you have those under your
your your tool bed in terms of like
toolbox of skills you're you're going to
be really set up for success
and the cloud does do
like it does this not a disservice
obviously but like they abstracts a lot
of this like you know these things but
if you understand just a little bit just
enough to be dangerous
infinite infinite possibilities right um
i i i i want to dive into sort of like
so you mentioned like you're you just
continuously always learning but in
terms of like uh like
what you were focused on learning at the
beginning where i'm assuming it was a
little bit more general to like where
you're at now like do you find yourself
um sort of just trying to keep up with
the new things are you more focused on
like stuff with your role or like or
maybe you give yourself like once a
month to like just try out something
completely different like what does your
routine look like in terms of upskilling
right now it's literally trying to keep
up with the role um because technology
moves fast at a software company you
know it's always iterating that because
we're we're open source software company
so just the the level of change that
happens across all of the
products is staggering and to be
successful in my job
i have to be able to keep
on par with it because i'm talking to
our customers our clients um helping
them you know what i say like we're
trying to help them build these
solutions i have to be able to talk that
language as best i can right so it is a
constant
you know
learning the newest thing you know
staying up on top of enablement what's
the new features reading release notes
taking the new courses when they come
out um it's constant but for somebody
like me who really gets a kick out of
just learning the thing
like
it can be something that i know i'll
never use and you would say well that's
kind of wasteful why would you waste
your time on that because everything is
kind of related to some degree so to be
able to kind of dive into something that
might not be your minor or your major
but something ancillary why not kind of
go through a little course or this is
why i love youtube there can be
something oh my god i have no idea what
this means i don't know how it interacts
search for the term probably somebody
has done a video on it right yeah
trouble you know someone's
someone's already done the work for you
so why not you know look at their
content see if it'll help um see if it
expands your understanding you know um i
you know i think
the the greatest thing anybody can ever
do is put content out there that's
helping people
for free because y'all don't have to do
it like we're always relying on the
stack overflows and you know using
google to within an inch of its life
yeah um
we don't have this is how we do things
now
when i started there was no google so
either you know it or you didn't so it's
like i love the fact that information is
just at our fingertips now and it's just
it's there if we want it and because
some people just want it
then this this is an amazing time to be
in this field because it's so much out
there and and it's for the taking
abs absolutely i think now is
if you want it you'll find a way to get
at it
education i think um
is i guess the lack of educational
content is not the the
what it was before like i even look at
like cloud specific educational content
from when i was getting aws certified
which was my first certification which i
want to talk to you about certification
a little bit um but i think it was 2016
that i started to
really sit down and study every single
day like two hours aws stuff and i look
at the the the the educational cloud
space now it's completely different and
we just think like that's only like a
difference of like four to five years
right yeah now it's just like back then
you could probably find like so the aws
like the certified solution architect
associate which is probably like the
most popular one and i was studying for
the developer one it was tough it was
like my couple courses out there and i
took absolutely everything that i could
find and now it's like there's new stuff
every single day right so now it's like
it's like the best time
i mean obviously
i think it's always going to be the best
time because i think just this the tech
space now is just forever changed it's
like if you want to get into it
there's no real real
nothing really stopping you in terms of
education i mean i just think like
that's just going to get better and
better and better and better obviously
you get the issues of like you know who
i didn't really know what is quality and
stuff like that but i think you know
we're never really going to get rid of
that you just kind of have to like dive
into it if it doesn't work for you it
doesn't work also something that might
work for you might not work for me you
know give things a try you know put
yourself put yourself give yourself the
opportunity to learn how you learn right
like that's like so important like are
you more a video person you're more a
text person you're more book person
tutorial person like whatever it might
be
there's something out there for you yeah
but like like i wanted to type into
certifications because i feel like they
most of us have like a love-hate
relationship with certifications i think
you know uh i if you're on linkedin if
you're on twitter it's so easy for to
see someone who i don't know takes like
30 certifications uh a month and then
someone who's like completely bashing on
them saying that they're completely
useless or something like that right
i want to hear your take on him do you
have any are you maybe studying for any
do you plan on taking some for the
future i know red hat certifications
have just always been in demand i i hear
about people studying for red hat
certifications like every single day i
get comments on my channel about red hat
all these kinds of things i know they're
pretty tough as well so yeah i want to
hear i want to hear your opinion on
certifications
so
personally i before i got here i never
had to have a certification
but i found them as an amazing vehicle
to
learn some foundational information
about x right so i took you know lpi
linux essentials um i've taken um the
cloud practitioner i taken the uh aws
solution architect
they were just amazing primers right if
you want to learn something very
foundational
these companies that are uh putting
these uh resources together to
especially because it's their product
they want you to know their product so
they're gonna give you the opportunity
with that one year free trial to use as
much as their product as you possibly
can especially if you're studying for a
certification um i think they're a great
way to get some foundational information
now the way that certifications have
gone they have given you the opportunity
to take more advanced certifications so
you can build upon all of the knowledge
that you've acquired taking those
previous certifications
that is priceless like i am pro-certand not even if you're taking them to um
oh i need this cert i need i need to get
all the search i'm collecting them like
pokemon cards that's cool too but what
you're doing is you're learning
something very foundational and if you
take subsequent exams you're building
upon that knowledge and
that to me is like that's the money shot
i if even if you don't want to take the
exam and you've gone through the
materials and you know the work and
you've
so what like you can't that no one can
take that away from you right yeah
search expire right yeah they do you got
to re-up and do things like that that's
cool too um i know they're not for
everybody people some people don't test
well not to say that they don't know the
content but testing in certain scenarios
can be very stressful for people so i
get that um the adaptive exams are super
hard you know people say oh true false
you know multiple choice yeah that's
easy you know and
you never know how people can can
perform in those types of situations one
you're timed two you've never
they they may be wording things that
you've never seen worded this way so it
is a challenge so
usually you're being watched exactly so
like you know you don't want to move
your mouth because someone might think
you're talking to somebody on the other
side like you have to be so it is such a
stressful stressful um time so shout out
to anybody who
is currently studying for an exam who
has taken exams who understand their
value
and if you've never studied for an exam
like
you know i don't know how you can speak
to it because you've never done it but
the just going through that process of
like doing the learning from beginning
to end to learn something um i think
that's invaluable
you you touched upon a couple of things
i i 1000 agree and sort of want to echo
a little bit on
one where certifications are now and
where they're headed is i think very
different than where they started i
think it was a lot easier for you to
memorize things to use exam dumps and
things like that for previous versions
of certifications where now you have
your specialties with now you have a lot
more lab focus a lot of sort of like or
like case study focused kind of things
where yes there might be multiple choice
but it's kind of hard for you to like
just memorize things which i love i love
certifications are also headed to more
role based and then like super general
so you can get as
like as specific as you'd like right
security identity um
administration devops architecture all
those kinds of things now have their own
set of certifications exactly and when
you think about like all right let's
think about like you want to be a cloud
engineer then maybe you're going to do
some azure ones some aws ones some gcp
ones but you can also go and get some
linux ones some security ones you can
also you can really build your own sort
of like degree
um it's not gonna be like four i mean i
guess you could put like four years
worth of certifications like put it
together right
you could really give yourself like like
i don't know let's say like six months
in each month you're studying for one
and but you're really taking your time
to dive into that content and
personalize it for you
and when you compare like certifications
like the cost of a certification which
often times you can get your job to pay
for
that's true just like a fun fact or like
a tip for you to look into for the chat
to look into in terms of like hey maybe
your job's willing to pay um
it's a lot more affordable than
traditional college traditional like
degree programs or anything like that
right and i just think overall they're
great i i personally love i i have an
expired aws certification which was my
first class for vacation i have the az
900 which is the azure fundamental
certification and i only took that
because i so i have a love-hate
relationship with tech twitter sometimes
there's just some tweets that like
really getting to like like kind of like
get under my skin and i know i shouldn't
be this way but i'm just being honest um
and it was someone saying that uh like
oh the az900 is like so easy like it's
such a pointless certification things
like that and i was like and i was like
you know what i'm gonna take it for
myself because i don't want to speak
upon things that like i knew it wasn't
easy just because i saw the content and
i was thinking i was like a beginner but
i had had at that point like two years
of azure experience i'm like i'm not
gonna study i'm just gonna go take it
i barely pass that certification barely
when i'm saying i was like i'm pretty
sure if i got one more question wrong i
would have not passed it so the only
reason i took it was because i want to
be able to tell like people you know i
had my youtube channel i'm going to be
able to tell people like this is a great
place for you to start and entry level
certifications are also newer like i
they were like it was like associate
level the professional level and then
entry level ones are like introduced
and overall i just wanted the experience
of taking one so i could you know sort
of recommend to others right i don't
want to just like recommend things i
haven't done
and then i have the linux essentials
which is
my favorite certification that i've ever
like and i've studied for like the the
the the azure um sort of like the
equipment the solution architect one and
i've studied for like a bunch of them i
just haven't taken any of them
um
mainly because i don't know i just don't
like scheduling things
but i've studied a lot of content around
it's a commitment yeah yeah it's like oh
will i mean i think i'll be available at
11 but i don't really know i want the
option to not have to like be available
at 11 kind of thing right but i would
study the content every day because i
genuinely enjoy it um but studying for
that linux certification linux essential
which is like like i guess one of the
like the most entry level it's the lpi
the one that you mentioned yeah um
that was it was tough it would that took
me three months of studying every single
day getting hands-on with the command
lag
writing notes and stuff like that it was
probably one of the best time i've had
studying for something ever really
awesome that's awesome you have a best
you have a best time studying for a cert
i have a best time studying for a
certain i have to tell you that story
but continue to continue yeah absolutely
and i and i think um
you mentioned like people you know sort
of like collecting mall like pokemon
cards and things like that uh
you know everyone i guess everyone has
their reasons and things like that i i
think your your time is best spent in my
personal opinion is you know grabbing
things that are fundamental uh and are
definitely going to help your current
role and where you want to get to and
things like that but you could probably
find uh like hands-on projects that you
can work on that might be worth a little
bit more of your time than studying for
another cert or something like that so
you kind of like just pair things mix
things up uh and don't necessarily you
have to like worry about getting every
single certification out there like i
think azure has like i don't know 20
certifications now you don't need them
all uh
so like don't necessarily worry about
that but like a couple of
solid certifications some projects and
and in terms of like getting started or
getting into the field uh and you're
good to go but i would love to hear
about like a cert that you you you
really enjoyed studying for yes so it
was the aws certified solution architect
and
so it's fun
it's a tough one that one was i i had
put out on twitter like i love twitter
shout out to twitter shout out to
lindsay so i said i wanted to study with
someone to take this exam like i just
felt like
i wanted to do this with somebody right
i've never done this before
um this young lady she's in spain
you know she's from milwaukee she lives
in spain she replied we studied together
three times a week for about two months
right i've never met this woman we had
the best time it was
learning from her because you know she
was newer to tech than i was and i'm
being able to impart some wisdom to her
because you know
she hadn't done these things so we
learned and bounced off of each other we
had scheduled our exams for the same day
she had to go to a whole nother town
like she had to get a hotel and stay
somewhere because it was so remote from
where she was right right right so she
had to make travel arrangements go to
this place where she can take this exam
me i just drove up 95 and went to this
you know went to the testing center and
we scheduled it for the same day and we
both passed
and it was i bet that felt amazing best
feeling ever like we worked so hard we
learned from each other we learned a lot
i mean you can't help but have learned a
lot it was 2018
um or 2019 whatever it was i don't know
2019 because it's my exam my cert
expires next year
she hit me up she was like you know our
cert expires next year we're gonna do
this again right i was like i wouldn't
want to do it any other way with not
another person i had the
and i've had some bad certain
experiences like i failed and and think
you know it you go in and you still fail
you like okay i'm about the dumbest like
you just
be i'm so hard on myself
so
for some people failing a certification
means nothing it's like i'll try it
again for me
it shakes me to my core because i like
to learn and i feel like i've kind of
mastered so
maybe i have to figure out how to not be
so caught up and like yeah you failed
you know just do it again and i'm i'm
working on that i'm i'm not there yet
but i'm working on that um just that
confidence um and you learn something at
every pass
in my opinion you know
if you fall down get back up oh where
what what uh what domains did i screw up
okay let me go back in here and you look
at them with a different set of eyes
right you know you know what you saw you
know what needs to be tweaked in your
head
and you approach it more holistically
and when you get that opportunity to go
back in and sit down and you like crush
it
man that feels goodand i imagine like not you're not only
studying for you now you're also
studying because you know how much it
matters to your study buddy right and
then i think this is just a fantastic
example of how much power and how much
sort of like you can improve when you
lean into community
and i think in tech
if you're not on um
maybe on social media or something like
that it's easy for you to feel like tech
is just about
skill skills skills skills what's the
next thing what's the next thing what's
the next thing and we often forget that
we're people like we you know you
admitting to the fact that failure with
certifications kind of like uh makes you
feel some kind of way the fact that i've
that i've like you know i've said like
oh when people say certain things on on
on social media like it kind of gets
under my skin and stuff like that we i
think we don't have these spaces in tech
as much as like other fields where we
can just talk about like just being
humans that we're humans in this in this
space in this field and how much power
we can get from leaning into our
community um
having conversations like these i i love
this idea of having a study buddy and
like maybe a study group and it's
actually something that i've been trying
to sort of plan with here with the
reactor and stuff like that so i'll have
to like i'll have to like we'll have to
chat a little bit more about this maybe
see if we can come up with something i'd
be like but just fantastic but um i
wanted to talk to you a little bit more
about
community and and and how
mainly how do you do such a good job of
not just being
100 tech because like i mentioned like
at the beginning of the stream you know
i i
like the tweets that most impact me from
you are like this wonderful technical
content but like the ones that remind me
to like get up and stretch
and sort of like that work-life balance
that you have are just like fantastic
and what are some things that you do to
sort of strike that balance what's your
relationship with work-life balance what
are some maybe advice that you have for
for other people in the field on how to
accomplish that
well i used to not be a remote worker i
worked in an office with a team and i
loved it like i liked that sense of
being around people because people you
know as an introvert you would say oh my
god people but there were certain people
that i could kind of lean on and i miss
that community right i miss having those
folks around so now that i'm 100 remote
it is
trying to you have to get creative you
know we've really had to get creative
over the past couple of years and i
found that um i was really this is
actually pre-covet where i was really
heavily into like the code newbies um
uh community and i've met amazing people
in that community i was heavily into my
local gdi chapter girl develop it um
they're not the same as they were many
many years ago but i leaned into that
community because to be honest there
weren't a lot of when women sysadmins
right i'm talking early 2000s i would go
to conferences and meet and they weren't
even meetups and i'm the only person who
looks like me and it's like
people aren't really friendly and i'm
not really outgoing and it was just
really weird but these communities were
so welcoming right they accepted you
whoever you were whatever your questions
were no question was too dumb you know
everybody had something to contribute so
those are the spaces that i treasure the
most um
so much so i had started one around
python i started one around the security
plus and these people are now a part of
my tribe like you know even though i've
kind of like backed away or have moved
to different things
you still can lean on that community
because everybody has a question
everybody is trying to move forward
everyone's trying to find a new job and
i find that i have thrived and grown as
a person because of these communities um
it i appreciated them for everything
that they've given to me and i'm always
giving back to them because it's not a
one-way street you know you can't take
without giving and um i'm just very
grateful for all those communities that
have helped me become this person right
now if it weren't for communities i
don't think i would be at red hat
if it weren't for communities i wouldn't
be doing this podcast right so
you have to you know
be mindful of what it gives and always
be willing to give back to it that's
just my personal thing 1 000 i tweeted
this i think it was yesterday or this
morning that i
was able to turn my youtube channel into
a role at microsoft and youtube being
such like a community driven kind of
thing and the fact that like community
has given so much to me and i've like
given so much to them it's like you
never really know what anything can turn
into these days you don't know who
you're going to meet you're not you
don't know what you're going to learn
and stuff like but lean into it but
don't forget to also as much as you
receive give but give out of like you
know
try to make connections because you
generally want to make connections not
because of like oh i need to get this
overview yeah right you work and things
like that one thing i wanted to ask
before i know we have like a few more
minutes and and if the chat has any
questions let us know right now because
i know you're not running on a tight
schedule but
what's it like working at red hat and
what's also like what's the difference
between working what you've that you've
noticed between working at like a small
company to just like an absolutely
massive company
girl it is like night and day right it's
nice you know i would you know walk down
the hall and it would be like cheers and
everyone's like norm and everyone knows
your name and it's awesome and then you
come you know you're you're a big fish
in a little pond and then you come to
red hat and it's like
okay um who do i ask for you know how do
i get access to this because one we're
all remote how do you build that that
rapport it is so different it's a great
company it's a huge company the the um
opportunities i i find that people i've
met so many people who say oh i didn't
start doing this oh i was here a couple
of years and i wanted to do something
else and i pivoted like
and it's like how can you like turn on a
dime like that well red hat affords you
the opportunity right it gives you the
opportunity to grow into different roles
you're never stuck
where you are right i'm a solution
architect now who knows where i'll be in
two years five years right i it could be
anything and that's that's the benefit
of working at such a huge company that
has you know that does a lot of good um
i have to give i have it's the end of
the year it was you know giving tuesday
and i'm filling out like i'm donating to
all these charities what do they do
match right so that is huge i've never
had that opportunity right so they're
helping me be a better person you know
it's just like
and i know there's no company that's
perfect there's no panacea for the
perfect job the perfect role but
if you get a place that kind of listens
to you
and allows you room
to wiggle and grow and to make mistakes
and fail fast you know that is very
important i i i was very afraid of that
when i first got here
but
i'm always it's like you know what screw
it up now learn from it and this is
the people around you support you in
that where they because they're human
too they make mistakes i think red hat
does that really well that sense of
community and openness
permeates
through everybody um and you know once
you drink the kool-aid it comes really
it becomes really a part of you and and
i think
when you're getting started it's sort of
hard for you to feel like that you'll
ever be in a place where you're just
fulfilled where you feel like you can
truly truly grow into what you want to
and discover things that you may not
even know that you're interested in or
roles that you may not even know that
you're interested in but trust me the
opportunities are are out there you will
have to put in the work and your
timeline might look completely different
than ours yes
but you know it's it's doable there is
so so many jobs out there in tech um and
and i mean you're if you you you know
put in the work obviously
study a lot study a lot get hands-on and
like now with like you know
how easy it is to spin up a linux vm and
sign up in a free trial here and there
like it's so easy to get hands on now
versus like remember you probably had to
like actually physically rack stuff
before right yes
yes ma'am
and i don't miss that at all
now you just have to like click clicking
or maybe a few commands and then you got
a vm speaker exactly although i do have
a rack with some servers in my office
but that's a whole nother story
that's that's the that's the old me not
being able to let go i think
but i mean it's still pretty cool to
like find ways to get physically hands
on with tech when it's all just behind
the screen i can't i i've been wanting
to start my whole my own home lab
but you know we'll probably have to dive
into that and oh yeah
oh definitely i would love to talk about
homelands
yeah awesome um and i one last the
absolute last question is yes you could
recommend everyone in the chat to learn
something
and like pick up something today what
would it be like maybe like your
favorite skill or something
we always talk about the technical linux
i think anyone who's if you're a
developer if you're ux if you're cloud
if you're devops linux is the skill to
learn
but we have to be mindful that our soft
skills are just important and i don't
really like the fact that they're called
soft skills but you need to be human and
you need to meet people where they are
and you need to see the humanity in
people so if you have like a big head
ego where you thinking your poop don't
stink like you really need to know how
to approach people and be kind like if
you can't be that and you think you're
going to work in tech no one's going to
want to help you like you all you're
because you don't know everything right
you always have to reach out and
sometimes get some assistance um you
have to give it to get it i think so
being kind is definitely having great
people skills having great communication
skills and i know you said more one um
but
the humanity of people sometimes get
left behind and i think that is an
important thing that we sometimes need
to focus on you know
i think it's a solid combo linux and
communication skills yes
i love it
angela thank you so much for joining me
i know rebecca usually hops on at the
end of the stream to just give everyone
a little a little reminder i dropped a
couple of links uh to your twitter to
the podcast that you do at red hat that
i i i recently listened to the one about
tech hubs and i listened to the one
about um technical interviews as well
that was a couple of months back yeah
for some research that i was doing but
everyone go check that out thank you so
much for for joining
us in chat make sure you follow angel on
twitter it was a pleasure
we'll we'll we'll do this again for sure
absolutely we'll have to
make this a recurring thing or something
like that all right all right take care
everybody thank you thank you all so
much