have you ever had a conversation with
someone where you're talking to them and
they're answering with just like yeah
aha sure sounds good sounds great
that is exactly how you don't want your
interviews to go let me repeat that is
exactly how you don't want your
interviews I have
developed some skills when it comes to
interviewing
and today I sat down to write out a list
of questions that whenever I interview
next given the current market this could
be something like tomorrow right
but yes if I compiled a list of things
that I would ask during an interview now
I will say these questions are very
random I haven't really organized them
in terms of like what stage of an
interview would I ask them in
because
different companies depending on the
size or whatever process they have in
place will have different stages you
have like a phone slash screening
interview maybe you'll have uh one
interview on cultural fit another
interview on technical interview a panel
a whole bunch of options right
so I had some more so just questions in
general that I would ask and you should
see fit you should see where these best
fit along the process that you're going
to okay so let's switch to the screen
and the first one is look at that the
first one I put in here is interview
process
this is the best place to ask for is
obviously in your first whether it be in
like a phone screen or whatever that
first way of contacting
uh the or the first the first your first
point of contact for the interview is
right uh how many how many rounds to
expect
and if there is a technical interview
how will it be conducted what are
examples of
like uh things that have been asked
before
oftentimes if the company is large
enough you can look up
past examples of interviews questions
and the technical aspect that having us
so asked before oftentimes other
candidates who have landed jobs or have
not landed jobs but who have gone
through the process have shared their
experiences online and you know lead
code is a very big thing uh because of
this right
but in the cloud space I would say
something like data structures and
algorithms and the whole leak code
uh thing is not as pronounced as in the
software deaf
and there isn't really like
something likely code in the cloud and
devops space
I tend to see a lot more of like
whiteboarding
okay like how would you like whiteboard
like diagram the solution out for us oh
we have this solution uh what service
would you change or which service would
you implement to improve the performance
oh we have this solution we're having
this error how would you go about
troubleshooting it like things like that
right
but anyway these are things you should
get a feel for in this initial phone
call so all about the interview process
everything else after this is
just a brain dump and
again just see fit where
where uh it's best for you to ask this
right so the first the second one is ask
about team
and then organization and Company
structure the reason I have like all
three is because you know depending on
the size of the company maybe it's just
a 10 it's like 10 people in the whole
company then they probably don't have
different organizations they probably
just have different teams or something
like that or maybe it's all one big team
but asking about the structure will give
you an idea of
how many hats you're gonna wear in the
roll so for example
my first role was at a medium-sized
medium-sized company no more more maybe
a little larger I think it was a couple
thousand employees
and
but it wasn't big Tech
um like big Tech size and the role is
very defined in coming into it and it
was pretty like what was in the
description was very aligned with what I
what I ended up doing later on when I
moved into a more startup type company I
think they were uh initially 40 30 40
employees that was just wearing many
many hats but they made that very like
they made the person who was applying to
the role very aware of that by saying it
in the description
if that's a good or bad thing that's
really up to you oftentimes being in a
role where you have many hats to wear
couldn't be a good thing but some people
don't like it right but just so
understand the company structure uh to
get a better feel for that
next I have here ask about team
organized or organization or company
yeah team or organization
responsibilities and focuses again if
you ask this on Team level on the
organization level will depend on the
size of the company and you'll get a
better understanding of this by asking
that previous question about the
structure
but yeah understand what your team is
responsible for what your team is
focused on and sort of what things you
can expect to deliver
in the role that you're in okay
this fourth question is one that I have
not asked before but is something that I
am definitely going to ask moving
forward other departments you'll work
with the most especially in advocacy
uh I the interest of me asking this
question is to get a better feel for
okay is the advocacy I'm going to be
doing more engineering for focused or
more marketing focused and I want to
know what teams am I going to be working
with the most outside of my most
immediate team
so that's why that question is here but
if you aren't going for a different role
like say you're in a cloud role like and
they tell you oh you don't really work
with a bunch of other teams you kind of
just stick to your own team that may or
may not be a red flag because it you
know cloud devops
Dev should all be pretty collaborative
uh but yeah it's something to to ask
about okay then this next question I
have here is job training
how long are you considered oh there's
multiple Parts here how long are you
considered onboarding uh so oftentimes
there's like the 30 day time frame 90
day 60 day time frame 90 day time frame
you have like onboarding goals again
depending on the structure and the
process of the company that you're
interviewing for
but they'll have goals set out for you
like oh in your first month you should
be able to accomplish this and you're
too in your 60 days you should be able
to accomplish this and your 90 days you
can accomplish you should be able to
accomplish this and oftentimes companies
will have like your 90-day period where
you're still sort of being tested out as
an employee and you're also in testing
out the role keep that in mind it's also
all for you to for you to understand
like oh this is something that I
actually want to do or not
uh but yeah ask about how long does that
onboarding period look like and what
does that process look like for you
uh also resources provided to learn a
lot of companies have like training
sites that you can access for free or
maybe they pay for it and it's part of
like a benefit uh do they have do they
pay for certifications tuitions is there
like a fund like I remember my help this
gig though it was really early in my
career and and I wasn't really being
paid much they had a fund I think it was
like a thousand dollars or something
that you can use every year to buy books
and certifications or if you wanted to
put that towards like a class that you
were taking at school they would you
know that money was for you to use to
upskill
so that was awesome so make sure you
have these questions answered early on
because that also tells you like are
they committed to helping their
employees upscale are they committed to
helping their employees stay up to date
which says a lot about a team a manager
and all that kind of stuff too
this next question I have here is role
growth
and this is all about understanding
like what umwhat potential growth you can see like
promotions or maybe is this a role where
you can that could lead into a manager
type role you know just understanding
that type of stuff
and some additional questions to ask
here is
um people who have been in this role
what girl have they seen or maybe what
roles have they moved up into or maybe
they tend to leave the company I don't
know there's a lot of potential answers
that you could get here and a lot of
potential Insight that you could get
here
and then this other one is important too
like what processes systems are in place
for promotion like is there like a buy
yearly cycle where people are like they
go through some sort of process to see
if they're eligible for promotion
uh this tends to be something in larger
companies but I've seen like
medium-sized small companies have this
in place too which I think is fantastic
I don't really think that this should be
something that is just for larger
companies
um but go ahead and ask that I think
it's really important to note too
uh this next one is a detailed
understanding of what my day would look
like I can see this probably being a
better question to ask the hiring
manager or a peer or someone who is more
involved that usually isn't again
depending on the size of the company but
that usually isn't that initial phone
call that phone screening sometimes it
might be but just make sure you get a
feel for who to ask this question here
but just understand what your date looks
like and maybe like over a week too like
when our team meetings what's the
balance with meetings and focus work
like how often do you work with
colleagues how often are you working
with colleagues that aren't on your
direct team I think this is our
important things to know as well
number eight is what are the team's
objectives and focuses for the next
three months so this is kind of similar
to that number three which is ask about
the team organization responsibilities
um and focuses but this this one here is
meant so more so to ask for peers and
hiring managers because they're the ones
who have a better insight into like what
is the team focused on and what will you
be focused on in your role for the next
three months oftentimes these things are
planned out in that amount of time
sometimes more like sometimes they'll
have stuff lined up for six months so
it's a good idea for you to get a feel
for okay how like how often does like
okay what are we working for uh get
defined and what is the current
uh like objectives like okrs or
were the other ones KP kpis I think
something like that like there's a bunch
of different systems out there for
people to Define their goals and just in
in companies and teams to Define their
goals so get a feel for what that looks
like too and this will also get you a
better understanding of what you can
expect to work on once you're onboarded
or maybe you dive straight into work I
don't know but a good question yes sir
too number nine what does planning work
slash projects look like in the team and
who's involved okay this is a great one
because this I mean this goes along with
number eight of course understanding
what's planned out and what's the focus
for the next three months but also when
it comes to figuring that stuff out what
does that look like who's involved who
gets to ask questions who does it get
run by uh what's the say that you have
with the projects that are getting
planned out things like that
understanding sort of your how your
Insight and your input would be taken
into consideration for works as projects
I think is very important as well
number 10 how fast is a team and Company
growing this is probably more relevant
for companies that aren't like very
searchable uh maybe smaller companies
that aren't like super
uh like startups that aren't like super
known or or something like that uh this
gets you gets you an idea for you know
how you can expect like if you're in a
small team that's growing really fast
you might be able to have a way bigger
impact than a team that's already like
kind of established uh so a good idea
there obviously uh if you're trying to
go work for big Tech then it's easy to
understand to go and find these answers
uh the answer for this one specifically
but uh for lesser-known companies it's a
good question I think to ask
number 11 is a big one which is why I
have a bunch of sub bullets in here
but number 11 is how would my
performance in this role be measured
this is your opportunity to understand
what metrics are used if you do hit or
you you maybe surpass the metrics or the
goals that you have to hit is there a
bonus
um what systems are in place to make
sure I'm on track to hit these metrics I
cannot Microsoft we have this thing
called
um connects which are buy yearly and
that's an area for us to reflect and get
feedback from our managers in a more
uh I guess a fish not not official but
it's like in a system it's written
um
to understand your progress right
uh and some companies will have
something like this some companies might
be a bit more informal it might be not
as scheduled whatever like but just get
a feel for that
how is feedback delivered and asked for
oh before I move on that so see what
systems are in place to make sure you
track this metrics those metrics are
what's what gets defined in the answers
to the questions eight and nine so what
are you focusing on for the next three
months and how does that work get
planned out so you'll get a better
feeling for those this this question C
of number 11 and those ones they fast
before so also about these questions is
you know you want to ask questions
intently right and you don't want to
just you like say you ask a question
and you already got an answer and or you
maybe got a little bit more insight to
another question that you want to ask
keep that in mind right like this isn't
like oh one two three four ask all of
these like your questions might already
get answered in previous questions so
don't ask them again like I said so I'm
trying to say okay
unless you need further clarification
then of course by all means ask like hey
could you clarify this right but anyway
see uh yeah what systems are in place to
make sure that you're on track to hit
these metrics or not on track the hit
metrics that's important to know too D
is how is feedback delivered and asked
for like is this something that's
informal is there a system in place for
this uh do we have like guidelines for
this a bunch of other things that you
could ask really to this
um how often does someone in this role
expect to check in with their manager
like sometimes there are weekly
check-ins I have weekly check-ins with
my manager personally that's something
that I would really look forward to in a
new role maybe it's like bi-weekly maybe
it's a couple times a week really
depends maybe it's not just with
managers maybe you have check-ins with
peers maybe you have check-ins with
skips which is your manager's manager
maybe you have check-ins with someone on
a different team I don't know just get
insight into what that looks like but
this is all this question is all about
understanding what is uh
like performance how to make sure you're
on track and the role look like at this
potential new role number 12 is what
should a successful new hire be able to
accomplish in a year this is probably a
question that's better suited for a
hiring manager
and who has someone who has direct
impact on the new higher success uh so
this is kind of going alongside that job
training going how long are you consider
onboarding the 30 60 90 plan
and yeah this is the like the answer
that you get here gives you an idea of
like what does your leader look like and
yeah it might be kind of silly to think
about oh I don't even have this role and
I'm already thinking about what a
success would look like for this role in
a year but that gives you an idea of
like what you're going to have to
dedicate yourself to do and to hit and
to accomplish in a year and if you don't
want to do that then maybe this rule is
for you right but the Insight here is is
great for you
on this last one how would you describe
your management style uh a manager being
able to describe their management style
is important obviously what they tell
you is important as well but even just
their ability to answer this uh this
question is I think very telling like if
they're very like if you if it seems
like inauthentic if it seems like they
don't have an answer that might be
something for you to to reflect on uh
but yeah another thing that I feel like
is important to answer
okay
this is a massive brain dump again given
the times I'm kind of just sitting down
and figuring out what these types of
conversations will look like for myself
um so I wanted to share
all right I'll see you next video