I interviewed for the third time at
Microsoft in April of 2021 in May I
received an offer and in June I joined
full-time I was hired as a level 61
Cloud developer Advocate I was based in
Connecticut at the time and the role was
and still is remote
starting base salary was around a
hundred and forty thousand USD
May of 2022 I got a promotion to a level
62. I'm currently now based in New York
and with my promotion and my annual
salary increase that was awarded to me
in September I am now around 175
000 USD again base salary
in my opinion reflecting on my promotion
there were definitely three key factors
that stand out to me the first one is
balancing ownership and partnership the
second one is making it easier for my
manager and the third one is just
documenting absolutely everything if
that is all you care about then see you
later if not hi I'm GPS I do Cloud
things at Microsoft and here on YouTube
don't forget to like And subscribe
because it really does help out and
welcome to a new video let's first talk
a little bit about what a cloud
developer Advocate actually is and does
advocacy at Microsoft is all about
building Community around Microsoft
Technologies and related so for example
we didn't create or invent the
programming language rust but we have
Advocate kits that are dedicated to
building support for rust on Microsoft
and overall nurturing that Community
same goes for JavaScript python Cloud
native Linux
etc etc the way I like to divide the
responsibilities is sort of like into
pillars the first one being delivering
and creating technical content courses
speaking at conferences meetups
workshops demos official documentation
etc etc and the second one being product
work and or feedback so perhaps you
interact with the customer and they've
given you feedback then you can go back
to the engineering teams and provide
that feedback to them or actually help
them Implement that feedback you can
also be actually working on Microsoft
products Services
etc etc right depending on the role that
you're in the team and the level that
you're at the percentage of time that
you spent on both of these will be
different
uh this role is still very very
technical and I think I've gotten way
more experience with Azure in this role
than I did as a cloud engineer or as a
CIS admin so if you're someone who likes
to be Technical and likes to be public
about the things that you're working on
advocacy might actually be a great fit
for you so check it out
now let's talk a little bit about those
three key factors that I mentioned at
the beginning
the first one is balancing ownership and
partnership one of the best things in my
opinion about working in a large company
is that there's going to be a subject
matter expert in anything that you could
think of so in my experience this has
enabled me to focus on the areas and the
skills that I really enjoy the most have
the most experience in as well and I
don't have to worry about becoming an
expert in multiple things and I can just
bring my best to the table and
contribute to the success of others this
is actually a really big part of
Microsoft culture and it's all about
sort of teaming up on the right project
with the right people with the right
goals because that's going to be able to
make way more impact than I could ever
do on my own if I was doing my own thing
don't get me wrong there's plenty of
space for you to also just kind of like
upskill in something new work on
something new kind of do your own thing
if you wanted to but really it's all
about that balance and it's working
smarter not harder and meeting new
colleagues in different teams different
areas organizations along the way the
second one is making it easier for my
manager so every week I have a meeting
with my manager where I really just get
to talk about anything that I need that
I'm stuck on or that I want and if
you've watched my how I organize my day
video I'll have it linked somewhere here
you know that I really really value
organization and systems so before these
weekly meetings I would always spend
about 30 minutes a week sort of writing
down a list of things that I needed to
address in this conversation with my
manager so even though it only took me
30 minutes a week to do this the impact
has been just amazing so this makes sure
that out of these conversations I always
got the most value possible I always got
to dress anything that I need to get a
dress and then all the work about
outlining that conversation was put on
me and that responsibility not on my
manager and then he can just focus on
providing whatever it is that I needed
it also helps me communicate to him the
work that I was doing and any progress
or really anything thing about my work
so he was informed but it didn't have
felt like he had to put in the work to
see what I was doing which I think is
very important the third thing is
document absolutely everything so at
Microsoft we have this tool called a
connect and we use it twice a year it's
really a way of us to showcase our
impact and our work concisely so
questions that you fill out are of the
nature of like you know what were your
goals what work did you do and what
impact did that work have on those goals
what would you have done differently
what are you focused on the next couple
of months Etc et cetera and the first
time I wrote a connect I was just
overwhelmed because I could not remember
everything that I did
uh so since then I now keep a monthly
Journal where I just read out the work
that I did so connect time comes around
now and I can fill it out with ease
definitely leaning into metrics and data
to further explain the impact
and also like a really good thing about
sort of partnering up and working on the
right projects with the right people is
being able to then ask for their
perspectives and their feedback and
their opinions on the work that I have
done coupling you know the connect the
data the metrics colleagues opinions and
feedback putting it all together really
makes for a better story on all the work
that I've done and it's a lot easier for
my manager and the leadership to come in
and just intake all that information
that is that it is in the connect uh and
you know put me up for a promotion
that's pretty much it I'm going to
continue putting these things into place
because I'm trying to go for senior
which would be the next level uh in 2023
and when that does hop in I'll make sure
to do another video and see what else I
can reflect on if you have any tips and
advice on getting promoted please leave
them in the comments that way we can all
help each other out and that's it I will
see you in the next video