so bash is a pretty important skill to
have when it comes to Cloud not only is
it essentially a universal language when
it comes to working with Linux servers
but it also integrates pretty well with
other programming languages scripting
languages command line tools and more
that you're going to use to work with
your cloud services let me give you an
example we got a bash script here and we
can right off the bat see we've got
functionality from both bash and the
Azure CLI so things like setting
variables using an if statement printing
to screen with Echo are all bash
functionality and then any commands that
have a prefix of AZ so this one and this
one right here are all functionality
from the Azure CLI so you can see we're
running two things in one script if I go
and run this this is going to create a
resource Group in Azure if it doesn't
already exist depending on the name
which is assigned up here and if it does
exist it's just going to print a screen
this group exists so you see it didn't
print that message to me it went out and
created it for me and if I run it again
it's just going to say this group exists