hi everyone today I'm going to be
talking about three areas I believe you
should be focusing your learning on if
you want to become a cloud engineer in
2020 I'll try my best to keep it short
and sweet but also provide an overview
and some tools and some resources and
perhaps some project ideas for each areayou build monitor administrate architect
cloud solutions and infrastructure and
depending on where you work if you work
at a larger company you might be
involved in just one of these tasks if
you work at a smaller company like me
you may have your hands in every bit of
these tasks and it can be overwhelming
but it's also very exciting so you know
stick with it
you're going to live in breathe in one
or multiple clock platforms at your job
so learning one well is the key here
in 2020 you can't go wrong with her
learning AWS or GCP AWS does have more
jobs I think that's just because they
have been around for longer and they
currently hold the majority of market
share though Adger is catching up pretty
fast and gzp isn't as popular but it's
it's still a very very interesting
option and I would totally say if you're
interested in learning you know Google
cloud you know go for it the key really
is to just learn one well a lot of the
practices that you learn in one will
translate over to all of them it
basically just comes down to you know
things are named differently in
different cloud platforms so yeah pick
one learn one will I think
certifications are great great ways to
get a wide range of high level knowledge
on multiple services inside of you know
the cloud platform that you choose I
know a lot of people don't like
certifications but I think if you're
just getting started they are amazing I
know they helped me a lot and they still
do help me even though I've been in the
field for a couple of years now of
course they won't replace getting
hands-on sign up for a cloud platform
you'll get some free credits and as you
go through tutorials as you're watching
a video as you're reading some sort of
blog posts or book implement the theory
implement the exercises just make sure
to delete the resources after you're
done using your dumb learning I would
recommend Linux Academy they're not
paying me or sponsoring this video or
anything like that but I used them when
I was getting AWS certified like three
four years ago and what helps me a lot
was they have live labs and sandbox
environments built into the course so
it's a couple of videos and then you get
a set of instructions in a sandbox
environment to implement what you've
learned and then you keep going in and
you have a mix of theory and hands-on
work that you get done and it's really a
great way to learn
I'm going to break this down into two
parts part one learn the theory and why
DevOps is important part to learn the
skills and the tools that implement the
skills
it's a set of practices that if you
implement you will shorten your
development lifecycle improve your
software quality and provide continuous
delivery of your software and all of
this of course means you better serve
your customers and your time to market
is shorter which would make you more
competitive which is always a good thing
just because you can release quickerfor this I recommend two books the book
called the Phoenix project which is a
story it's about an IT manager who's who
inherits this mission critical business
critical project that is severely
over-budget and severely behind schedule
the CEO one day comes in and it's like
if you don't fix everything within 90
days I'm going to outsource the entire
department and this is like thousands of
people so obviously thousands of people
will be losing their jobs funny story
here I was actually reading that book I
just finished that book before I went
for my interview for the jr. rule my
junior cloud engineering role just a
couple years back and I had finished my
interview with the person who's like my
direct supervisor now and we were
waiting for the CEO to come in and the
supervisor asked me just to kill time
like hey what are you currently reading
and I told them the Phoenix project and
he was like no way I'm currently reading
that too and then we sort of established
a bond there over the story and I asked
him as I was working on the script of
this video like hey was that moment we
had over talking about the Phoenix
project that influence that all of the
fact that I got hired and he mentioned
that he believes yes because it showed
that I had you know actually natural
passion for learning about these things
so I don't know if that story helps you
at all but I'm you know a healthy kid I
the second book is the DevOps handbook
where the Phoenix project tells you the
story of implementing DevOps practices
the DevOps handbook is the handbook of
doing like the instructions manual it
gives you the theory and the technical
steps to follow those two kind of go
hand-in-handinside of DevOps you have automated
testing continuous integration and
continuous deployment monitoring and
infrastructure s code which what I would
say are the most important skills to
know you must swap your tools for each
one typically you'll see CI CD
continuous integration continuous
deployment and automated testing as one
tool or one service and you know github
actions at your DevOps circle CI are the
ones that come to mind so google those
see which one you like the most and as a
project to pull your own website using
CI NCD for infrastructure s code docker
is pretty much the standard for working
with containers kubernetes is pretty
much the standard for container
orchestration so organizing your doctor
containers and then you have terraform
which i believe is probably the industry
standard for for provisioning
infrastructure but there are the things
like ansible I believe Jenkins as well
but terraform is what I use so I'm a
little biased and monitoring graph wanna
comes to mind date a dog new relic
Prometheus I problem Prometheus probably
might be your best bet but like I said
Google the skill and then see what tools
come up and you know pick which one you
want to learn and another project could
be deploy some infrastructure with
terraform and that will give you some
infrastructure as code experiencereally the cost saving and the time
saving and the magic and benefit of
using the cloud it comes when you can
automate your tasks and you will have to
do that through code recommending the
best code programming language to to
learn is hard honesty you have to pick
one and learn it well in the concepts
well that way you can like every other
area you know learning one and then you
can translate your skills it's the same
thing with programming like when I was
starting with AWS I picked up Python and
shell scripting and when I got hired for
my junior role they were an azure shop
they aren't at her shop so I picked up
PowerShell in c-sharp and that's
currently what I use on my day to day
it's really about understanding the
concepts and then picking the right
tools for it if you're still having a
hard time picking language you really
can't go wrong with Python as a side
note I will say learn to use the
terminal learn to move around
comfortably in the terminal earn some of
the popular commands some of the
networking things it will save you a lot
a lot of time so some resources here for
Python there's this book called Python
crash course I think it's by Eric
Matthews and there's a youtube series
called Python 2020 by Derek Banias very
good resources for Python as far as
using the terminal and shell scripting I
would say Joe Collins Joe Collins has a
fantastic series on it so just go I'm
just look it up on YouTube you'll find
it
you don't have to be a masher at one
specific tool the most important part of
being a cloud engineer is understanding
why you would have to use something and
when is something the best to use tools
come and go but the practices and the
skills are always there they evolve but
they're always there so don't worry too
much about being like the kubernetes
expert or the docker expert or the
terraform expert don't about that that
comes with as you evolve in your career
and you know there's plenty of things
that I still have no idea about Here I
am making a living doing this cloud is
very overwhelming there's a lot of
potential a lot of movement going on
here it's a little bit of work a little
bit of focus you you you can land that
job so good luck to you and I will see
you in the next video