I've got a six-month self-study boot
camp that you can use to learn the
skills to become a cloud engineer Cloud
support Cloud admin an entry-level Cloud
role with a focus on engineering so if
you're interested in sales or any other
space of cloud this isn't really what
you're looking for uh but if you are
take a look hi my name is GPS and
welcome to a new video
all right you're gonna go to
bootcamp.madebygps.com to start off this
is a much more concise and
straightforward and meant to be used as
a reference of what learn to cloud is
where I Surrender cloud is a overall
guide that you probably have to go in
and out often this is something that you
can just check on a daily basis a weekly
thing because I know learn to Cloud can
be a little overwhelming when you're
trying to just have maybe like a high
level guide or a high level outline of
what you need to follow right so the
protocol will be to three to four hours
a day at the minimum keep a study
Journal this is a place for you to
reflect at the end of your study time
every single day spend five to ten
minutes just writing what was
challenging
what you really liked resources you
really liked and overall what you want
to follow tomorrow because this is
really what's going to glue together uh
everything and help you like
have like a a train of thought that you
can continue on the next day because
remember you're going to be learning on
your free time right maybe you have a
bunch of other responsibilities and it's
going to be hard for you to remember
everything but if you have sort of like
your train of thought in your Journal
then the next day you can start you're
you're studying by just referencing your
Journal like oh this is where I was at
oh yeah I remember this and then you
continue doing that too
you're going to end each section with a
project the difficulty of projects
doesn't necessarily matter more than
just overall that you can showcase
Clarity and understanding of the skills
that you'll be learning make sure to put
on GitHub and then all Cloud platforms
have free credits when you sign up so
take advantage of that to make some of
these projects live as well and then and
each project with documentation so this
is why I recommend you have a journal
because you can just go through your
daily uh journal entries and then from
here you can sort of grab everything and
create like a blog post or create a
tutorial on like YouTube or somewhere
but the journal is going to really help
you develop your own ability to
communicate technical things with your
own voice your own style your
authenticity your own realness because
those things really help when it comes
to developing confidence for an
interview so I highly highly recommend
you and each project with documentation
and I factored in three days at the end
of each section for you to do this so
take advantage of the time and overall
instructions for the project are for the
boot camp is create a free account in
any Cloud platform AWS Azure or gcp I
don't care any one of those set up a
learning budget in your cloud account 20
I think for each month is more than
enough and make sure to set up alerts at
50 and then 75 percent
and then uh this these are alerts that
will tell you oh you've consumed 50 of
your budget oh you've consumed 75 and
these will just help you not go over
budget make sure to delete things when
you're done using them too create a blog
or YouTube channel to document your
learning don't get too worried about
your branding you don't need fancy
styling none of that just go create a
channel or go create your blog or
wherever it is that you want to document
these things
and then create a GitHub account you'll
need these to upload your projects onto
okay so we're going to kick things off
with a study plan with bash bash is what
you'll use to interact with your servers
via CLI via commands and this is one of
the most effective productive and
efficient ways of interacting with a
cloud platform and you should be doing
this as soon as possible I know
beginners tend to use the UI a lot but
if you're going to play a VM it's
probably going to take you anywhere from
five to six minutes using the UI
stepping through each step whereas with
a CLI command you could do that in 30
seconds there's a bunch of resources
here
and like I mentioned these will build
off learn to Cloud so if we click on
like the First Resource here it just
brings you the Linux bash Network
fundamentals it gives you resources
projects commands you should be familiar
with uh maybe certifications that you
might be interested in but again the
study plan the boot camp plan is more so
just a high level outline so you can
reference it as often as you'd like all
right we're going to divide these two
weeks into 10 days of studying and
working within that Ubuntu VM so go into
your Cloud account to play the cheapest
possible Ubuntu VM and then this is what
you're going to use to learn remember to
turn it off after you're done and also
configure it to automatically turn off
at a certain hour like maybe you're
always done studying by 11 pm have it
turn off at 11 PM
in case you do forget also this is just
so we don't spend more money than
necessary
so 10 days working inside of that Ubuntu
VM and just using the resources to learn
different types of commands and then
four days writing scripts I recommend
you do both of them but if you don't
have enough time
then do one of them probably the first
one is sort of the most bang for your
buck and then again three days at the
end of each section to document your
learning and I stopped repeating this in
every single one of them but you get the
gist of it three days are factored into
the six months so keep that in mind
next we're going to networking uh how
all the machines talk to each other so
it's a plumbing of the cloud right
you're gonna spend two weeks this is
more of a theoretical section there
aren't any Hands-On aspects to this
besides you know spending 10 days just
learning networking Concepts subnets
v-nets again if you click on here and
then you scroll down to the networking
section it's going to tell you sort of
Concepts that you should be familiar
with
and in terms of the project I spent four
days here but just create a
well-documented network
architecture diagram and become familiar
with diagramming tools because these are
some tools that you're going to be using
for the rest of your career I recommend
going to the architecture centers of the
cloud that you're working in and then
just find a two-tier and three-tier
architecture and be able to recreate
that from scratch but also be able to
speak through it saying like oh we have
here a three-tier architecture we have a
subnet hero we have the the this route
table here and you know be able to speak
to the architecture and we're going to
use this in the following sections as
well
next we're going to go into python we're
going to spend five weeks in this
section here python is just the one of
the most beginner friendly languages
when it comes to Cloud there's so much
community so much content I highly
recommend it yeah well I'm not
personally a python developer I can
remove my bias and say when it becomes
comes to Cloud beginners it's probably
one of the best options
uh you should have already been
introduced to variables loops and just
more programming Concepts in The Bash
section but here we're going to dive
further into this so so spend four weeks
with your favorite python resource again
I have this learner Cloud link here and
I have a bunch of them listed here
um
and I'm probably going to add another
one because I know I found uh a python
playlist that was fantastic uh but yeah
and that's been one week building a
project uh ability to do app API and
deploy I highly recommend doing both of
these uh to do app API so you don't need
a graphical part to this just the back
end and deploy it to your Azure AWS or
gcp account
and then create a two-tier or three-tier
application architecture that you can
deploy to your cloud account so that
architecture that you created over here
just go and use the python SDK for your
cloud and deploy it to your account
next we're going to go to our uh Cloud
section and you have picked a cloud at
this point you've already introduced it
from the very beginning and now it's
time to dive deeper you're going to
spend four weeks studying for an
associate level certification this could
be the solution architect associate the
developer associate that you have in AWS
or you can go to the az104 az204 which
are associate level certifications for
Azure I don't know the gcp ones but I'm
sure they have them but spends four
weeks studying for those and then two
weeks building the cloud resume
challenge or any Cloud project I highly
highly recommend the cloud resume
challenge it's just it's just one of the
best projects when it comes to learning
cloud I have a bunch of other projects
if you go to resources on learn the
cloud and there's you know Pig your
Cloud here pick whatever one you really
want but honestly the best bang for your
buck is going to be the cloud resume
challenge
then we move on to terraform uh starting
from step four all the projects and sort
of Hands-On are going to be just
implementing uh additional features from
your previous projects because a lot of
these are all devops practices and
develops is all about making your
existing projects more efficient so you
don't have to build anything from
scratch it's more so implementing
features to your already existing
projects right so for example we're
going to start with terraform which is
probably the most popular infrastructure
s code tool again resource here but you
can spend one week overall just studying
terraform to Concepts uh the language is
that you'll need to use in those types
of things and then one week building the
infrastructure as code files for any of
your previous projects so build it for
your Cloud resume challenge build it for
your or is it for your to-do app or if
you're a two-tier or three-tier
application architecture
uh spend that time doing that then we
move on to Docker uh you're gonna spend
two weeks one week uh studying Docker
overall just Concepts and then one week
containerizing any of your previous
projects probably makes the most sense
to do something like a to-do app API you
could also do your Cloud resume if you
wanted to
and then GitHub actions you most likely
get an introduction to cicd with your
Cloud resume challenge project so I
would take the time to spend one week uh
two weeks total but one week just
overall
further diving into what cicd with
GitHub actions is and then one week
building cacd for any of your other
previous other projects your Cloud
resume will most likely have that
because I believe it's part of the
challenge but just do it for I don't
know your to-do app or your two-tier or
three-tier application architecture as
well and that's pretty much the the
outline I feel like this is something
you can say you can reference this often
again you can duplicate this to your
Notions you can remove add things as
needed but uh yeah I hope this is
helpful and I hope you have a fantastic
20 23.