testing one two
one two
what up everyone let me view on YouTubeoh my goodness my girlfriend is being
super loud right now
I had to close my door hold on one
second I'll be right backactually let me get let me send this
this outone sec
foreignhow we doing
happy FridayI'm headed home in a little bit so I
wanted to stream beforeI leavelet me get this link out too
all right what up
wild wild week
I just heard uh some layoffs happening
within my org within my team and stuff
like that sointeresting and difficult week Bachelor
beginners is almost oh Josh is here let
me add Josh
hey Josh hey how's it going your camera
setup is like a little different I'm
digging it yeah and we're here now
I haven't seen this angle of your of
your room everyone this is Josh Josh is
a colleague of mine at Microsoft but
before being at Microsoft what did you
do I was an S3 at stack Overflow for a
little bit and then before that I was a
devops lead
wow
that's impressive how'd you get into it
oh good story oh yeah I could tell the
Powershell story
um so I was one of those like the the
black sheep of the devops movement where
I was a Windows admin and a Powershell
person Powershell scripter so it kind of
started I wanted to go to school for
computer design I don't know how much
time we have flux right I'll cut it
short but I wanted to go be a game
developer like anybody
saw the six figure price tag decided to
go to community college for computer
networking because that was the closest
thing to that
uh and then I went up on the help desk I
worked myself up to system administrator
network administrator kind of like a
one-man shop jack of all trades rack and
servers doing all that stuff doing Zen
server and Zen app and all that goodness
then I landed my cell phone a big
service desk where I couldn't just use
GUI tools and kind of fell into
Powershell scripting and then
got a hold of now my teammate Steve
marowski and followed him and he was uh
he was at stack before I was a number of
years before
and I kind of wanted to make that my
career path and so I dove into
Automation and and devops and
infrastructure as code eventually landed
at stack and then you know right after
laying in my dream job that I've been
working for for like seven years got the
opportunity to join Microsoft and I was
like well
I don't know if I can turn that down and
so then I joined during Microsoft I've
been here about two years now so that's
the last 13 years of my life and like a
minute that was
very concise I appreciate I appreciate
that
um Josh is also my my co-host for our
Bachelor beginners course coming out
next week we were like finishing up last
minute things today doing last minute
edits and stuff like that and I'm not
gonna lie I I really didn't have an idea
of how it was gonna look like come
together because I haven't well I mean
we haven't really spoken about it but
we really came we came up with idea we
only kind of like talked via like Word
documents and teams but we never really
had any practice runs or anything like
that but I knew that you would be like
great fit for it because I've seen
uh your style of delivery and and I
think in a way we're pretty similar
because you like to be concise you like
to be straightforward and it like meshes
very well with mine so when I saw it
like yesterday and today like the final
like versions I was like oh my goodness
it's it's really really good so I'm
excited I decided for it to come out
thank you for doing for doing that um
absolutely my pleasure with me that was
great but yeah I think uh everyone is
excited for for that uh
for that series it's gonna be great I
think uh bash is Bash Powershell
scripting is such a massive pillar that
I feel like a lot of people like get
into their career and then they end up
going back to learning those Basics and
then they can like take steps
further or like all it just unlocks so
much potential even for
programming right or or
anything that you do now that has a CLI
it's all like you you go from oh I'm
just doing these commands without
knowing what I'm doing to like oh and
now I really know how to leverage these
commands so I think it really doesn't
lock kind of like a like a superpower I
think maybe people think it's like
too basic or maybe intimidating or
something like that or probably from
either side it could be balls I think
I've seen people that are you know
principal level developers that can't
move around a terminal and they see it
beneath them uh and then people that are
kind of like more used to GUI tools and
they're intimidated by it because it it
looks like programming
um so I've seen both but uh my favorite
story with with how powerful scripting
can be was a couple jobs ago when a
devops lead and we had a security
incident and I was on call and I got a
page and my manager called me and he's
like hey this is a really big deal I
need your help and they had deployed uh
some software out to everything some
security software that broke everything
we've all kind of been there if we've
been on a help desk security software
has that tendency but I was able to pull
up uh you know a Powershell
and within a couple minutes just write a
script that went and cleaned out the the
installation and then I ran it and
scaled it with you know Powershell
remoting across thousands of servers uh
and saved the day so I mean that's kind
of the power of it where I didn't have
to write a program and compile it and
deploy the binary everywhere and then
run it I just wrote a script and I was
able to remotely execute that everywhere
so it's it is a superpower I think a lot
of people don't realize that like a lot
of these commands are also
themselves almost complete programs like
think of correct
right like how capable there's like
entire books on just grip the single the
single Command right so I don't know
it's it's I'm excited uh it's gonna be
great I didn't know you also had maybe I
did her but I forgot that you have a
help desk background how long did you do
that how like how did that what so what
what came after that and like talked
about uh talk to me about that impact
sure so the the help desk was like
straight out of college I joined a small
engineering firm
um there were like maybe 300 people or
something like that and I was you know
my first project was migrating everybody
I'm dating myself now migrating
everybody to Windows 7. uh it's because
it just just came out and so they're all
on XP and so that's where it started I
was on the help desk for about two years
and then I
um moved into a network admin role which
was really assist admin
a network basically a one-man shop so I
ran uh all the it for a small bank so I
was on the help desk for two years then
I went to network and I still had to do
the help desk because I was a one-man
shop I was both the help desk a network
admin you know running cables across the
the campus and the buildings and stuff
like that there's actually this remote
office in a small town out in Nebraska
where I had to run like a 100 no about
200 foot cable just down the street to
the other building to connect them
because they didn't want to pay for two
endpoints uh so I did that but then I
went and joined another like a large
Enterprise help desk which is a totally
different Beast yeah um instead of like
getting to know everybody and like here
I'm gonna install office for you it was
all remote and it was for a large
construction company and so I'd have
people call me
from like these job sites and they're
trying to like this the wireless isn't
working in my trailer I'm like well
where's your trailer it's like some
remote place in Alaska and I'm remotely
debugging all this stuff um so I in
total I probably did it for about three
three years or so before I moved into a
systems engineer role it sounds like it
was they were like pretty Hands-Onit's like this title
title thinks uh maybe there's like
a little bit of a with like a reputation
to it or something but you really don't
know what you're gonna get out of it
like you could you could end up
scripting you could end up learning how
to code you could end up like doing some
Cloud stuff like there's a lot of like
active directory stuff and identity
stuff that I see with help desk related
roles too and I mean it does suck that
they're notoriously underpaid but a lot
of them also have
like uh uh like upskilling uh funds or
like maybe they'll pay for your shirts
or they'll pay for your books or things
like that because I think a lot of
companies that I've seen are pretty
self-aware that they help this role is
one that people don't aspire to stay in
their entire career uh and they like
encourage people to like you know learn
and upskill and get certification things
like that speak about certs do you have
any have you taken any oh yeah I've
taken I've taken I mean I actually have
a good post uh search don't matter but
they absolutely do matter it's one of
them I think I saw that I think favorite
quotes this was a while ago though yeah
like three years ago yeah
haven't been as consistent with blog
yeah so I I don't know what I hold now
I've let some of them expire but I you
know way back so I actually do have my a
plus and N plus and I got grandfathered
in so I have n Plus for life I don't
have to renew I took it the December
that they changed the policy where you
had to renew
um I passed my CCNA in 2013 I let that
expire a long time ago but that was
that was like horribly difficult for me
I failed it three times uh finally made
it through and then I've done some I've
did the AWS Cloud practitioner I've done
uh the Azure sysadmin one and then the
devops 104 104 yeah uh and then the
devops one the 400 I think yeah that's a
tough one when'd you take that
two years ago so it's probably still
valid for a little while
and you're and your time at Microsoft
did you oh my cat's here have you taken
any nope
do you have any ones that you want to
take anytime soon I'm looking at the the
GitHub once those seem like a really
good way yeah yeah stop why did this
happen like with workflows and actions
like probably a couple years ago I think
now
um but just to round out those skills
those those have been on my radar[Music]that would be a good one yeah given like
everything that's going on oh come on
um
yeah how do you feel about the a plus
was it was it useful it was so like my
whole degree program and computer
networking was really to get me past
that certification so it was all set up
for it just gave me a really good
foundation
I mean I even had a class on printers
which I despised but I I had to work
with printers on the help desk so it was
useful
did um
you did a full four-year degree or was
like a just a two year yeah two years
Associates yep we uh we were talking
about school well because I tweeted
about wanting to go back to school and
then you mentioned like you had
similar thoughts and I was curious to
see what like what do you think about it
I've been touring with it ever since I
joined Microsoft
um just to go back for computer science
and finish it out so I got the two-year
degree and then I went and got a you
know got a job on the help desk and I
started going to school and I finished
about I think I finished a year and a
half like uh roughly uh a four-year
degree and then I just it became too
much you know I was working two jobs and
going to school and so something had to
give and school gave and it didn't
really have a negative impact on my
career at that point
um but now like I'm seeing that there's
some holes that I could definitely fill
especially because I have a different
mindset with school now than I did back
then where I think I would absorb a lot
more information and process it too
um but again the workload versus
my biggest contention with it is I'm
pretty sure I can learn faster without
the traditional track but I think I
probably learned it at a deeper level in
the traditional track knowing
knowing what I know now about learning
um so that's my dilemma is but then all
my side stuff is going to suffer a
little bit if I take on more workload
for school so I'm stalling the fence I'm
not decided but those are my that's my
thought process yeah it's exactly I mean
Super similar where I'm like now I'm in
a position where I can afford it I I
could find the time if I wanted to and
most importantly I have the mindset and
I don't have like because I feel like
back when I was in school originally I
was just trying to figure out like what
to do with my life like I gotta try all
these different things like how am I
gonna like all that so all that kind of
gets in your way and clouds it uh the
decision or like your ability to be in
school so now you know that I have kind
of everything lined up and you know we
get a pretty nice tuition reimbursement
at Microsoft to I think I also I think
most importantly I have a maturity as
well to do something like school that I
didn't have back then right so but my
problems are the same and I'm like I'm
gonna get bored I'm gonna like sit down
in this English 101 thing because I
don't have any of the basics clear like
I'm assuming like with your
to your program you might have some of
like you know you have like writing or
communication I had to do that actually
um when that first 18 months that I
talked about before
um that's when I had to do like
composition and calculus so they just
switched the computer like the program
to have not the teacher grade your math
the computer grade your math and I was
like this isn't fair like this my my
work doesn't matter like I just correct
answers
so no that burned me out pretty quick
but I totally get it I wanna before we
answer questions on the checks I don't
know if you've seen these streams I
usually just hang out and answer
questions that people give us in the
chat I want to ask you about the SRE
role because I feel like it's it's
similar to devops it has just like so
much confusion around it it's like what
do you what do you actually do what do
you need to learn to get into it and is
it like an entry-level friendly role so
curious about your thoughts on on that
it's I would say it's definitely not an
entry level role because depending on
and it's going to be different depending
on the organization because it's very
very devopsy in the sense that the
implementation of esri is dependent on
that that company uh and so I can speak
to my uh experience at stack and I think
they did a really good job implementing
SRE but it's not entry level because it
it's a inter it's a multi-discipline
profession or role where you need to
know about systems and infrastructure
you have to have at least a good
scripting background and
a lot of like a lot of system
administration too and monitoring so
like like they have the whole teams
around these different facets you know
like a couple jobs ago that we had a
monitoring team we had a Linux team we
had the windows team and SRE kind of
expects you to have a good
good amount of knowledge in a lot of
those
um what's really interesting about the
SRE role though if you can if you can
land one is everyone on the team is
going to have a different t-shaped
knowledge so like I had a really good
infrastructure as code background
another person had a really good
monitoring background but we all could
kind of code and stuff like that
um
yeah I guess what else would you like to
know about Test free role infrastructure
as code
and for you it was I think you're like a
big ansible guy right started with DSE
and then it moved to like an official so
I I actually started with CSE and
Powershell because I was a purist with
Powershell uh and then I wrote I wrote
my own
um DSC rapper and config management tool
using octopus deploy and then I wrote a
custom Powershell module called invoke
DSC that abstracted DSE to Json
um and then I learned that there's value
in a config management tool because I
just tried to write it myself and I was
like I'm ever going to get underneath
this if this takes off of this company
like this is all I'm going to do is
manage this tool I created and I was
like we should just use an open source
tool like ansible and that's how that
came to be so start with DSC but then
ansible on terraform yeah that sounds
like the mostinstead of like leveraging yeah it was a
mistake I learned a lot but it was
definitely a mistake
so let's grab some comments from the
chat now it's the last area you expect
it is the last area you expect layoffs
it's not a good indicator for the
economy curious if you have any thoughts
on layoffs and things like that I I so
my personal opinion is I think a lot of
people in the Panic through all
companies off and it was a really weird
economic State and a lot of people over
hired
um that's just my kind of observation
with it
um and I think it's also like we're in
this really interesting flux where we
haven't really seen this since like
Cloud came out where a lot of people are
pivoting the resources into this AI
space
um and I think those are the two biggest
factors for layoffs in my opinion but
I'm I'm not in senior leadership and
management role in any capacity and I'm
not an economist so yeah you know take
it with a grain of salt I think on top
of that there's also like you know when
you have like the big companies doing it
then all the smaller the companies that
are smaller compared to the large ones
kind of have the cover like all right
they're doing it and then I can use the
same reasoning that they do even if the
reasoning doesn't align
um so you're going to see a lot of
people take advantage of that because
ultimately business is business it sucks
for the people that you know get
affected like all of us right because
you know even if we aren't laid off we
lose team members or we lose people
people that we've worked with or stuff
like that and it sucks and it also like
you could be working on a project and
then the next day it's like oh you got
to figure a bunch of new things out
because everything kind of like shuffled
around or something like that so there's
a lot more to like to it than
than what is just like publicly put out
there
um
hold on here we go here's a good one is
it true if you learn one cloud like gcp
and other clouds like aw other clouds
like AWS and Azure are similar do you
have any other Cloud experience outside
of azure AWS yeah okay was it
did you pick up azure
faster because you had AWS knowledge I I
actually picked up Azure faster because
I had Microsoft knowledge and it was
built in microsofty
um so what I will say though is it does
give you um it starts to build your
mental model so I just finished right
here I just finished reading Peak
and so it's a book about deliberate
practice and one of the biggest
takeaways that I got from that book was
the importance of mental representation
or mental models and understanding what
that is and so learning One Cloud will
make learning the other ones easy
because you'll have context at least
some context and that they have
different names and you deploy them
differently and they have different
portals but essentially at the end of
the day if you learn them at a at even a
surface level you'll be able to connect
more dots because you have knowledge in
one area
I agree I agree it's like a programming
language
something like that let's see uh here we
go which area has more growth software
development or Cloud admingood question yeah I think
I don't necessarily think it's a
question about growth it's more so I
think a lot of roles
are going to significantly change and
adapt because you know what AWS and
Azure did to Data Centers and cloud is
essentially what the technology is like
open AI uh oh Liam's here open Ai and
hold on let me just add Liam before
hey Liam
hello
Josh Leo I don't think so Liam no I
don't think so
Hello nice to meet you Liam is on my
immediate team so we're all we're
Regional Advocates and Josh is on cloud
wait what's your their Cloud native team
Cloud native open source yeahuh Steve morowski and Paul you and Aaron
whistling and George
uh blanking on George's last name but
George but George cool
is basically UK Liam do you want to do
like quick intro yeah so I'm based in UK
um at the Microsoft reactor like Ben
said media colleagues so uh worked
worked together it's brilliant Focus
mostly on devops and go so I do a lot of
my stuff around there
um yeah this is pretty awesome actually
it's got a really good team yeah Liam's
a big girl guy
don't talk anymorecome over and help support me so I'm the
go person on on our team but I'm
surrounded by Russ
Engineers so
brilliant you guys need to connect for
sure because Liam is doing a lot on
efforts with like go on azure yeah so
keep me in mind yeah I definitely need a
chat oh my Godwhat we were asking which area has more
growth software development or cloud
cloud admin Liam you got any thoughts
here oh
I reckon Cloud admins growing quite
quite quickly at the moment uh software
development always finds quite saturated
in terms of everyone's wanting to learn
everyone's wanting to get into the tech
industry so it's like they immediately
go straight down by the software Dev
route not many people think about Cloud
admin and a lot of uh like the other
roles that make up Tech
umI think um like to finish off my point
it was saying like with what technology
is like open AI and over Google
like that are just gonna bring in an
abstraction to all that type of
technology and obviously the easiest
integration is with Cloud so you have a
cloud skill set it's kind of like you're
already closer to to integrating with
all those types of apis so I think
there's there's a lot of potential there
uh in my opinion
Liam do you have a do you have a degree
college degree I do I do it's in
computer systems and networks so I don't
actually use any of it in my day job I
think the closest I came to using it
um as a software engineer or as an
advocate was actually when when we did a
series back in almost probably about a
year ago now wasn't it the Azure v-net
series I think that was like the closest
it came to actually using my degreeVMS you name it yeah that was good fun I
did like all the Cisco stuff so ccla one
two three and four
um so they have like it's kind of like
the Azure certifications but Cisco ones
uh it was it was hard it was it was
really hard because it was like physical
switches and I didn't really get to
grips with it never really
loved it to begin with I just kind of
did it to get a degree open the door
that I needed to to get into what I was
doing at the time
do you have a any active certifications
now
uh at the moment I've got oh God I think
I don't think I've got any Azure ones
actually I think I have I'm gonna say
AWS ones
does IBM have certs yeah I do uh well
they did yeah yeah I've got the IBM
professional Cloud developer
certification I think I've got Google
digital marketing like sort of games
like a free thing I did which is pretty
awesome uh yeah I've been got quite a
few that through
um
it's not a claim there's another one
that there's like another certification
board
close to a claim
um so you can get them through
cool do you have any any idea or like
any any certs on your wishlist how do
you feel about certifications
oh it's a good question good question uh
I think it is a double-edged sword
because
I I think on one hand they're really
useful to show that you can do your
homework and that you can learn stuff
and answer some questions on it on the
other hand I find it bad because it's
it's so saturated in terms of there's so
many certifications you can do
and they don't really amount to much in
my mind which is why I kind of stopped
pushing them really heavily and didn't
really do them myself I felt like I
could be much more rounded if I went
through learn modules or learned like a
proper tutorial to learn a proper
technology as opposed to going down like
this siled here's everything to know
like everything you need to learn to
know this one thing and then just kind
of embrace the whole Tech stack
um more so openly if that made sense
yeah more a fan of like Hands-On
Hands-On yeah I get you I think this is
related to let's see when debating on a
degree we're taking the same
certifications that cover the topic from
Traditional School hold the same value
no piece of paper but the same knowledge
is gained thoughts
oh but it's that it's
it's unfortunately that piece of paper
that holds the value right
like I mean that's the benefit of going
to school yeah I I think having my
degree was the only thing that opened
the door to getting a graduate job
um at the time so what about four ish
years ago when I started well when I
graduated in 2018 most of the jobs that
I applying for for grad schemes what
what you needed to have a degree piece
of paper in your hand and it had to be
of a certain level and in the UK I'm not
sure what it's like in the US but over
in the UK we obviously have first or
upper class up a second and then lower
second and a third and they they always
ask for nothing less than a 2-1 which is
another second class you'd get the odd
one which was like a two two so a lower
second class but most of me just opened
that door
um school is that for
eigncourse so I did a placement year as a
software developer
so
and so job jobs there in the UK it's
like if you don't have one you're it's
like just really tough to break into
yeah I mean it was four years ago I'm
not gonna be honest with you I haven't
really looked recently
uh but it's it's certainly helping to
Mentor younger people that are coming
through like sick form so you know like
college or end of high school basically
uh going into sort of graduate roles
still a lot of them I see are asking for
degrees of certain levels
but that just runs true when it's not an
apprenticeship so in the UK we have the
a lot of apprenticeships that are going
on um where you can just finish call to
18 and then jump straight into a job but
you get paid for it and then alongside
that you also do like a
degree which you get paid for so you're
kind of going to University getting paid
and getting hands-on experience at the
same time which is a really cool way to
do it but then the barriers to entry is
so high only like so many people can get
into that kind of role and then it's you
either divert off to a different path or
you end up going to University which
college yeah so it's like it's really
it's really hard question to answer yeah
yeah because again no one path is like
easier let me let me introduce
everyone's all right so hold on so for
the chat as well
uh Richard wait never ships on the side
rishab to Bishop and Liam do you know
each other I feel like you might know
each other no are they even met like
once once yeah are you muted yourself
please talk no you're muted
I can't hear you uh can you hear me
anyway yes okay right now okay okay
uh devops python space devrel at twilio
Liam go
devops space
uh devrel at Microsoft Josh Josh what's
your main program language
go right now is the is the main language
that I'm working go is 50 so go
go in Cloud native at Microsoft and then
there'sthen there's you talk about but yeah
Richard Josh Josh Williamokay cool uh let's see here which Aryan
Tech has will have more resistance to
layoffs Cloud cyber security mlI don't think I don't think you could
really see it as like which area or like
which like Focus
no I've certainly seen that there's
literally no Synergy across it so I've
seen people from so many different sort
of areas being affected by this uh
whether it's in machine learning on AI
um all the way across to like hololens
and VR for example so a lot of a lot of
those teams have been laid off which you
think is upcoming Tech right you think
those are like the Pinnacle of what we'd
be wanting to aim for and I don't know I
don't think anybody's safe from it it's
felt a bit like a game of Battleship
and I have no idea
it's gonna get
yeah trying to like guess it or or
try to make yourself feel more safe than
others it's like nah
you're just asking for frustration and
stress that way yeah because there's
like no no guarantee there that's a
question uh I'm just starting out in
clouds so which one of these roles are
the more safe and Cloud architect
engineer networking or devops okay so I
guess we kind of answered this because
there's no such thing as a safe
as they say for all but uh in this panel
I would say
um the one that you most enjoy because
you're going to put more into it and
become better at it that would be my
kind of two cents there is like which of
those brackets do you would like pulls
you forward and wants makes you want to
invest in it more because the one that
you invest in more is going to be the
safest one
um yeah at least like sharpening your
skill sets and being really good at that
particular discipline
think so yeah because then you can also
like give your full you know
whatever potential you have or even more
um because you're really passionate in
that specific area
um because they really covered a lot so
Cloud there's architect there's engineer
there's networking and devops
yeah it's very wide like yeah
it's like like a lot of different things
that you could potentially get into well
a good story uh Liam and I both
mentioned like we we started with
computer networking and we did it like I
passed a cc and I didn't go for four
years agree so you got more grit than I
do in that area for sure but I did do
the CCNA and it took me about you know
two years to get that passes and that
and after I passed that I was like I'm
pivoting go I'm going the script and
Route I'm not I'm not doing networking
so that was a good move for me relate to
that so it's funny
um I feel like we're meeting for the
first time Josh I've seen some work uh
and I'm really excited to see The Bash
uh stuff
but I've also went to like Community
College because of just how much money
was involved at that time to get a
degree
um and I did the computer networking
and one of our professors introduced us
to like CCNA and he's like this is the
like the you know signature set that you
get if you want to be a network engineer
at a local company or University or
whatever wherever you want to work and I
saw the book I read the first chapter
and I'm like no
it is something it is a wedge it's a
door stop that book you know what you
know what I did so I I passed a cert the
next day I took both my cset and CCNA
books and I gave them to Goodwilluh yeah that's a it's a no joke
certification those ones those are like
there are some solid work you've got to
put in for them they're hard
yeah I think the right the the dive so
deep into like the concepts uh
specifically like when it comes to you
know Cisco hardware and I'm like I don't
know if this is being taught to us at
school so it'll be really hard to you
know just self-learn and at that time
like you know I think I made some
stupid decisions which you know like
she could have avoided but yeah career
some of it's necessary pain though like
I don't regret it because now on the off
chance the chance that I'm in the I'm
doing something in the cloud and I run
into this networking issue I'm not
completely blind like I knew several
principal level software Engineers that
like they'd reach the network layer and
just throw up their hands I think yeah
these are brilliant people and they just
throw up their hands and be like oh so
that works fault it's like the only
thing that changed here is your code
base
yes but it's a network
there's also some like I I've talked to
a few folks and I see some kind of
hate
I don't know why towards networking and
like how like majority of people hate it
just like you know it's so boring
it's not it's it's hard but it's it's
not boring because when you once you
like dive I guess it could also be the
education because you know yeah maybe
yeah like in in that it can be driving
that's for sure there we go that's the
word not boring okay
but yeah
yeah it was fascinating to know that um
you also started in help desk which is
good
kind of share like really similar pads
sorry go ahead and go ahead
it's up to us now to make some fun
networking and educational content
networking for beginners who's going to
do that someone should totally do that
that's a great idea I'll go it will be
introduction yeah that's exactlysomething slightly beneath an associate
level knowledge is more than enough to
get into Cloud yeah
totally totally all right question Cloud
engineering specifically Azure searching
for jobs which is a bigger impact
Powershell or bash Josh
if you're working in Azure Powershell
um because that's what azure's really
built built with and that's the glue but
if you're going to move into the cloud
native space like so I'm a huge
Powershell background I've got uh you
can't see it in the angle but I had MVP
before I joined Microsoft and it was
primarily in my work in that space so I
I'm a huge fan of that language if
you're on earlier I was a Powershell
purist for a while and didn't even want
to use a config management tool
um but when you move into the the cloud
native space and you start to do things
with containers and kubernetes and stuff
like you're not going to escape bash uh
so like if you're just starting in Azure
and you're more doing the Cloud
engineering and admin stuff I'd say
powershells you're better bet there to
start
um but just know like in the back your
mind like you're not gonna completely
avoid Bash
but what if you're a what if you're a a
cloud admin for Azure but using Linux
servers
I still think all the services though
they have well there's the Azure CLI so
you'd probably be okay if you want to
stay in that same domain
um but there is a lot of a lot of things
with power so you could do just because
it's running on Azure
um unless you need to go to the OS level
so at the service level like you want to
interact with Services it'd be
Powershell but then if you drop to the
OS it you'd have your bash but probably
use classic platform or cross-platform
yeah do you yeah I was going to say do
you feel like Powershell is you know
more closed whereas bash is like
especially with the cloud native space
you know that's like the staple
um and
I I think it's probably just because
like bash is there and yeah it's it it's
painful to put it like so good examples
like GitHub Runners right like where
your action runs like if you're just
using a container image if you want to
bash is there you don't have to worry
about it and shim in Powershell so
you're just going to run into a lot of
cases like that where yes you could
shove Powershell in there but it's just
going to be easier to use bash universal
language yeah that's more open I guess
I love networking but I'm doing CCNA is
it worth taking exam for cloud or notyeah I think so I I think you can't go
wrong
because you're always going to need
networking experience in Cloud if you're
doing any kind of orchestration take
kubernetes for example right or I don't
know istio so service Mash you're going
to need to know how to network you're
going to need to know the protocols
you're going to need to know your
different OSI levels right you just it's
kind of a fundamental skill to know in
Cloud especially if you're going to go
down that route if you're a software
engineer it's good to know about the
different layers of programming well
when you're sort of interacting with
different network protocols but if
you're going for cloud I think
networking is a fundamental skill that
you should at least know about or at
least have some sort of in-depth
knowledge on that's a good question oh
sorry go ahead sorry I was going to say
yeah but is it worth it to get a CCNA
and like I I I totally you know agree
with all the concepts you need to know
the OSI layers you need to know how the
three-way handshake happens how
computers communicate with each other
what's the difference between TCP udb
but is it worth
going deep into you know what's the CCNA
season A1 doesn't go too deep it's quite
introductory at networking level so if
you're going to go for CCNA those four
exams or at least when I did that was
Four Season I one two three and four if
you're going for like the whole shebang
down to level like c74 that's when you
start looking at different packets
you're intercepting sort of headers and
reading data from that kind of minute
level but ccna1 is very much an overview
of networking what is it why is it how
do you use it and what's the difference
is that still called csap or is that not
it's been like it it's been quite a
while it's been about four years for me
there's also the network plus too from
CompTIA uh yeah is that one
yeah it used to be like a equivalent to
whatever AZ 900 is to networking is
there something like that but no it's
not as introductory as because there is
AZ 700
but I feel like people go with CCNA or
network plus because they're Cloud
agnostic and you learn about networking
rather than sticking to like a vendor
right because AWS has their own flavor
of a networking sort
Azure has one I don't think TCP has one
yet
but it's Cisco
but it's like Cisco like is Cisco and
networking essentially like the same
thing now I think what Liam was saying
with the CCNA one I think it's more
about the concepts and networking and
not like the switches and routers and
stuff yeah yeah it's kind of like the
fun the fundamentals right yeah
here's a good question should I learn
bash script or shell script please tell
me I'm very confused Josh this is like
video number two yeah that you coveredso if anybody else
um has any more detailed knowledge let
me know but they're essentially the same
thing
um so bash so there's a little bit of a
difference when we say terminal people
interject that so there's the terminal
and that's a terminal emulator that's
what you issue commands and then you
have your shell and that shell can be
bash or Powershell
um that's inside of the terminal and so
if you're
like bash and and shell script those are
synonymous like if you go in vs code
there isn't actually a bash syntax
there's a shell syntax and it's actually
meaning bash for the syntax of that the
particular shell
um so that I guess I would say learn
bash
um because that would be like what we
would call the Shell they just call
Shell as like a general agnostic term
for whatever command line interface
you're interacting with so shell could
also be command line it could be
Powershell or it could be bash but it
gets confusing when you don't know those
more detailed terminologies
um like I got laid into pretty good when
I wrote a Powershell post on Azure
Powershell and they had a really good
point where like I needed to separate
out terminal from Powershell from the AZ
module right like those are all three
separate things that we often say as
shell uh so it gets very confusing I can
totally understand like I can understand
the confusion
you know I used to see people giving
example of you know how in the script
you put bin bash at the top
so that just tells you this is a bad
script and that's how you differentiate
between like our professor used to give
us that example because we would be
confused in the beginning like is the
terminal itself the entire Bash
yeah because you could also be in like
like today I was in seashell but I had a
script with the shebang had been bashed
and it runs in bash even though you're
running it from somewhere else yeah this
is a whole different whole world over
here learn Bash that's the lesson of the
week
um I think they call it like shell
script because you could like bash
um you can have a script that doesn't
have any bash in it yes so and so it
could just be running a grep command and
that's that's a shell script
um but it's all being executed typically
from bash
um in a lot of cases unless you're using
another shell like when just mentioned
cool
um well the chat gives us more questions
what's everyone working on what's
everyone been up to this week wants to
start rishab rishab you were at sibo how
was that yeah so
um that was good
um great weather I hate to be back
because it's snowing right now and is
minus something degrees Celsius what uh
what part of Florida was it Tampa Tampa
so it was like 23 degrees Celsius great
weather Great like cool uh breezes and
um there was the river so the venue was
really close to the Bay
um yeah it was fun the talk went really
good networked with a lot of the cloud
native
community members that what they're
presenting on you know kubernetes in the
cloud native space service mesh learned
a lot about containerization over those
two days and yep um just got back
yesterday
um so yesterday was catching up
um with work and today the same
emails
nicethis week
traveler I was I was away yeah
I I took some time off I went to Dubai I
always just I that's the one place I
always go to
um
yeah yeah it pretty much was I was at
work last week that's like a once in a
lifetime thing for people in the states
yeah
I was gonna say that pretty lucky it's
not it's like an eight hour flight seven
hour flight from here so it's not too
bad
um yeah I was I was away on holiday for
a little bit came back but um yeah I've
been working on a
kind of a big project which happening in
March so I'm building like a three-tier
application three hour live stream that
I'm doing with somebody in the community
here in Microsoft UK so we're recording
it as a recording we're doing a live
stream in the Microsoft Studios so it's
gonna be like TV production all that
kind of level stuff which is going to be
really cool all about the internals of
go what it is and how to get started
with the Integrations on Azure so
looking forward to doing that to be
honest with you it's going to be really
fun
here's a question for for you Josh and
Liam how good is and I want you to be
honest because this isn't an official
Microsoft Channel this is my channel how
good is support for go on azure
crap
oh this is as honest he can be I love it
yeah no bueno but I know a good team
that's trying to make it better there he
goes
yeah
your media train Josh yeah I worked
actually so I was just honest uh lead
technical writer for go on Azure at my
previous role
um and so it was painful
um but I got to know the SDK team there
and they're they're doing good work
there but a lot of the services it's
it's not it's second class
is it is it because there's there's less
like adoption for it so is it like like
a vicious circle like less well you
think go and you think Google you know
and so like goes embedded in all their
documentation and stuff and it's just
not you know you think Azure
youthink.net and that's kind of where it
is and I think that's FL battle probably
what Liam's I'm kind of alluding to
very much so I I mean if you look at the
competition uh across different Cloud
providers it's
it's lagged it's lagged quite a bit
um the teams are doing a great job
pushing I think that was in one of the
channels at work where someone was
asking if they're sort of making a
serverless function like a native
serverless function for the build pack
it's the moment I think if you want to
Azure use serverless functions uh with
go you have to use HTTP sort of server
essentially like
yeah custom Handler so it's
it's difficult because you can't get a
lot of things you want to get done
quickly
um that you should be able to get done
quickly so yeah the teams behind it are
brilliant they're pushing it but in
terms of I guess business impact it's
going to be hard to justify
justify it in terms of what we're doing
right it's not it's not I guess what we
want to do we've got to be careful I say
but it's uh
yeah there's different different
approaches for it yeah until I get it
Josh what have you been up to this week
uh this week was the third week of the
cloud native New Year that we kicked off
it's a little event that my team put
together
um or was helping put together and so we
I just got off a live stream like right
before this um
yeah it's like I'm ready let's just
extend this
I find it kind of funny how ready
everyone in advocacy I mean the majority
of people are advocacy advocacy are
ready to just jump on a live stream it's
because we do it like so much dude Josh
do you do how and your team how often
are you on like live uh last week was
our first live stream so this is my
third third appearance in a live stream
um for Microsoft for you know related
if you ever want to practice just come
on here like that sounds good to me Liam
and I would do these like what every day
yeah it's a weekly appearance yeah
yeah it was Liam before joining
Microsoft were you doing like last like
live stream stuff often no no before I
joined uh Microsoft there was a lot of
video on demand so I used to work at IBM
prior to this as an advocate and the
lead advocate for UK so it's very much
bid on demand working with different
teams across IBM more of like an
internal role at some point throughout
the pandemic it's hard to Pivot uh to
begin with during the pandemic because
we're so used to just traveling
everywhere so it used to help run
um these meetup groups across the UK so
we had IBM code London we had code I
think it's Bristol and Scotland so for
those of you know like the UK Anatomy
that's kind of like quite from the
bottom to the top
um and we used to travel and do a lot of
events throughout that and obviously
conferences so it's like heavy on travel
so there wasn't really much live
streaming in it to be honest with you
and then it was like jump to Microsoft
did a similar role and it was all like
all of it a lot of digital scale a lot
of virtual so kind of picked up a lot of
the live stream I never used to be I
would like I was never comfortable on
camera prior to being at Microsoft doing
this it was all very much standing on
stage in front of people kind of
confidence as opposed to sitting down
and sort of having to control I'm still
afraid that I learned like the horrified
author
presence you know and be more relaxed
because like that's all that I've done
for video content more or less is just
you know like very polished video
content and so I'm trying to let that go
and relax a bit
uh if that I guess the hardest bit for
me was just not being able to read a
room so I remember doing my first online
conference and sort of talking into a
camera and talking into a microphone and
it was just silent like nobody was
speaking back to you that's very odd
that was always very odd to begin with
uh I lost it now but uh yeah it's hard
we have a chat now how people in the
chat let us know
how are you feeling what's the what's
the vibe right now uh it's like yeah
it's different I've never done any
in per I mean I've done some of like
reactor stuff but it's more so like
career networking type of thing but I've
never done like technical talks at
conferences but I also don't have much
of an interest
I don't know why I also don't have much
of an interest to like travel to do that
stuff either though Liam I know you do
that a lot I don't know if Josh do you
have experience doing I've done a couple
so I poked I I've spoken a lot of like
user groups like locally
um years ago before the pandemic and
then I spoke at the Powershell and
devops Summit at one time in 2018.
um so I've done a little bit but I'm
I'm pretty rutted I've got you know two
little kids so travel's a little bit
harderBishop you've been doing
some for a while right
yeah I think last year has been like it
caught up
um especially with with you know back in
person events and then I also realized
there's this whole world of submitting
like you know cfps and stuff like I I to
until last year I didn't know you could
just randomly submit cfps to certain
Tech events I'm like they'd reach out to
the speakers and get that organized but
yeah just just getting to know that but
then I I agree with like Liam that there
is always this aspect of being in person
because you know you can tell by if if
others are listening and like paying
attention and that's how I used to make
like eye contact especially when
speaking in person whereas like now
we're I guess it's different story
because we are for here so I can talk to
you right but then if you do that alone
there's just chat and you don't know
like you solo streaming terrifies me
I'll be honest really yeah
and I guess it I mean maybe it depends
like the topic so the only stream that I
felt intimidated was the one that I did
uh the hell Linux Works which I did on
Wednesday because there was the Linux
Community I don't know if you all know
about this but they will if you say
anything wrong they will finish you so I
had people in there was like it's not
called Linux it's called uh what is it
gnu Linux it's like oh you're saying
this wrong like how what do you mean
like this oh so I have people like that
but it was also like probably one of the
no the most attentive live stream that
I've done and so the chat was going by
so fast I was at one point I was like
I'm just not gonna care about this
but then I found that most people are
pretty pretty chill like this person
says they're having a good time so it's
pretty awesome we have a
question here which study strategy do
you think you think is most efficient
Josh is a big fan of study strategies
studying for the AWS Solutions Arctic
cert and I wonder how many people are
able to write the exam in like a month
does anyone have this certificationokay yeah I have
do you want to speak to your study
strategy or okay let's let's let's make
this a higher levelcertification study strategy would love
to hear what you guys schedule it that's
the first thing schedule it put it in
you can push it a little bit if you want
but I'd say like 30 to 60 days but go
ahead
sorry I was gonna say only if you have a
time limit
yeah I've done so it's where I didn't
care if I passed them in six months or
one month so I don't book them but yeah
if there is a hot goal that you need a
certificate for like career stuff and
like you know promotions or anything and
you want to do it in a month yeah
schedule it because
yeah you'll have a deadline to be uh to
meet basically
but that's a great tip
that's what took me so long to get the
ccnas I would like study super super
hard and then I get burned out and then
I wouldn't study for a week and so I
just constantly reset my studying I see
uh and it's because I didn't schedule it
because I didn't have this time pressure
like I can't take a week off because I
have it's scheduled for two weeks or a
month or whatever so that really bit me
in the past
the only sorry go ahead I was going to
ask because you said it took you like
two years to pass that yeah but that was
because you were taking breaks yep and
resetting and well then I would take
like the CCNA and then I'd fail and get
discouraged and like take a month off
you know okay so if you put it all
together with like removing the brakes
how much time do you think it really
like how much like deep focus study time
do you think it took I probably could
have done it in three to four months
okay okay it's a lot more doable now
because I was thinking two years there's
no way I've ever taken the certification
yeah but that is a lot more doable
yeah the the only reason I have that
kind of opinion or perspective is so
especially for the solutions architect I
only studied for like two weeks because
I was working as a cloud engineer for
one and a half years and strictly in AWS
so I think that the question is like
really you know subjective to each and
every one yeah and and with Solutions
architect just booked it like a day
before went in and gave the exam really
yeah how many weeks of studying two
weeks two weeks plus over a year of
experience
almost yeah more than a year yeah yeah I
feel like that's pretty appropriate
I guess it also depends on yeah your
current experience let me see studying
for the AWS
exam I think a month
is reasonable from scratch though no no
that's tough
yes for a Solutions architect yes
it took me developer when it took me six
months to study and pass for that but
that was from scratch right yeah from
scratch like yeah no knowledge
whatsoever but then when I took like the
900 I
I did that in like the afternoon with
but like yeah same approach yeah Azure
experience yeah all right what else we
got here
to use any note who here uses notion I
use notion Liam do you use notion no
Josh I know you I've used it I don't use
it no it's not that I'm not a fan uh
just different tools okay do you use any
notion templates for your studies or you
created your own worship do you have
templates for your studies
no it's just like simple like you know
the page template and then you just
start putting stuff in
um I was gonna ask does any of you use
obsidian because I've been hearing about
that a lot yeah
Josh he's a big fan maybe
what do you use they're like how do you
like write down notes or whatever flash
cards I I just simply use flashcards
it's always worked for me yeah it's
always worked for me so I like so I go
through everything in a notepad
um so literally something okay on my
desk so literally just just a small A5
notepad cram everything I can done like
one page and then I'll just condense
that into like a little flash card
um I'll go through some practice exam
test questions I'll write them on the
back and they'll be like very similar
very much like if you're at school you
went through all the like past papers
right they're all very similar and the
questions don't really deviate too much
as most of the context
um so I'd always just do it that way
I've just totally old school I was
literally about to buy an iPad this
weekend just so I can try something
different in terms of like taking notes
on an iPad as opposed to physical pen
and paper
um so I was going to try and mix it up
this weekend actually I tweeted about it
I think it was like yesterday before
asking people like how do they do this
how do they use an iPad because I see so
many like pictures of setups with people
with iPads and I had like pencils and
stuff and wondering how they find it so
that's kind of totally old school
totally awesome
I find it like a nice toy but I find
that the iPad gets in the way the
majority of the time because I'm either
like writing stuff down like on like I
use journals as well like straight but
like no structure like absolutely like
oh like these random words where I go
back to it later on I'm like what the
hell did I write down here or I'm using
very structured like typing stuff out on
notion because I'm like referencing some
sort of material that's somewhere like
there's no in between so I feel like
with the iPad I'm like I gotta pull it
out I got the pen so I gotta open it up
handwriting but then I'm like this
doesn't feel the same as paper so then I
switched the paper and then I never end
up using like I can see it cool for like
diagramming but then what I end up using
for diagramming is scally draw which is
just way more easier and straightforward
to use than once you get a hang of what
you're actually doing and it looks
decent with like less effort but I feel
like the iPad apps take more effort for
it to look decent if that makes sense
yeah no I think
absolutely
going through so many no padsuh yeah I've got like a whole box like
stacked full of them I've got lots of
them so many pretty same here yeah yeah
I was gonna say with their iPad thingy I
went even down the rabbit hole of like
how Gwen said it doesn't feel like paper
and got that paper like you know screen
things like does that make it better a
little to some extent you have like some
kind of friction that makes it feel like
paper but then as you said there is just
too much on an iPad and I'm like so I
just gave it to like my wife and she
loves it dude I did the same I gave it
to
back to school I'm like here I have this
exactly yeah she she has night school so
she takes it instead of the like her
laptop so it's way easier for her but
yeah if you want to do a deep dive on I
so I I did like eight months like heads
down okay note taking Shenanigans
um so if we want like that's a whole
like for eight hour conversation yeah
what were you trying to figure out what
works best for you uh well my main goal
was to uh I was writing a non-fiction
book at the time and so I wanted a way
to like that that dream that the note
taking system is supposed to give you
your manuscripts your rough drafts right
so I tried to figure that out but then I
also tried to apply it in like the
technical World sense and learned like I
started to skill up and go at that same
time and so I was just consuming and
processing a ton of information uh with
research and I wanted a way to capture
it and I learned a lot of it you know
eventually like I stopped for a while
and stuff but uh back to your point
about uh obsidian I did write a book
about how to like how to apply the smart
notes methodology in obsidian and I
didn't know this but it's apparently on
Goodreads which is pretty cool I didn't
know that to like just just now I
Googled it to try to get you a link and
it showed up there so that's that's
super cool but yeah if we want to have
like a live stream on note taking I can
I can go pretty deep into into that
because I've been around every tool I'll
just drop it in the chat people love
note-taking systems like just knowing
about it
I don't know why yeah because I think it
gives you the sense of like productivity
like watching other people do it yeah
I've I've once searched something about
notion and then you know how YouTube is
you're down the rabbit hole off all
these aesthetically pleasing videos of
note-taking and I'm like this is a whole
Rabbit Hole yeah I just gave up on it
switching
sunsets here do any of you have
experience with Microsoft Sentinel do
any of you have experience with thisI've only heard a pitch about it
at my past like
previous to previous employer we were
trying to
do some Enterprises stuff and there was
some concerns that caused to have that
discussionthe remarkable is pretty cool feels like
writing on paper no distraction of other
apps and can sync to the cloud convert
to text what is that remarkable it's uh
we'll go ahead
no no go ahead it's it's basically like
a a digital display with an ink display
uh notepad so they try to get it as
close to paper as possible
um I've not tried it it's been very
tempting but I I did the same iPad route
I was kind of just like laughing in my
head as everybody talked about it
because I got a mini for the same reason
just specifically for notes and it was
and I got the paper thing on top and I
got the pencil and I did all that and
then this remarkable comes out and I'm
like
I probably should have just done that
because the iPad just has everything
else on it and so it's it's a mess you
can't just yeah it's just yeah so yeah
so it's like a notebook you could say
but everything just sinks to the cloud
so some people swear to buy it yeah I've
not tried it
I feel like people will swear by
anything though
especially on Twitter people that I
would I respect their opinion okay um
yeah they are just BS and kind of swear
by it um but yeah it was I think I've
watched Scott hanselman's video on this
too again video
on I'm not sure if it was on Twitter or
like I don't think it's on YouTube
um but back in The Tick Tock yeah
he has a video on the new one I think
they came out with remarkable too nowthank you
oh did he freeze
I think so
did you freeze for you guys yeah yeah
it's not just me
uh cool so let's see I think we got
someone said here good question I wanted
this bash or bash group for beginners I
think they might be a little confused on
different words well uh maybe they were
talking about like just learning bash
commands versus like diving into
scripting
um and the series kind of talks about
that I would definitely start with the
commands like just getting familiar or
navigating and using using bash in the
terminal to do things and then naturally
an extension of that will be hey I want
to repeat this and you throw it in a
script and you start to learn the
scripting language yeah it's a pretty
not yeah like natural uh
like Journey that way
because you're not gonna you know after
you write maybe like a line of commands
a line or two then you're gonna be like
let me just put this
file it's like too much Liam what's your
experience with scripting in general
uh
minimal so I did quite a lot of it
actually at IBM and I was working on
um so Cloud integration systems at IBM
with containers and hybrid between local
development and remote development and
sort of tying together so I had a lot of
bash script in there but since then I
haven't really touched its balance with
you there was a lot of um sorry devopsy
stuff that were that we were doing
um honestly I haven't touched it in
about two or three years properly so I
was really excited when you were doing a
bash for beginners course right so when
I saw that coming out and I was like I'm
gonna be watching this one this is on my
watch list
so yeah I gotta be watching that yeah
a few more days and we're
almost like oh I thinkI'm building a project from the ground
up at Microsoft I'm sure you all can
relate to this but it's like yeah
it is
I told Justin Justin is our Liam and I
as our manager I told him this week like
I felt every time I was talking about
this project to get someone's support
like I was on Shark Tank you know how
Shark Tank you have to do like a pitch
and then you have to like really
convince them like oh we can accomplish
This Together kind of thing I put every
single I have so many of those
conversations right now but now you know
a couple months after I'm like oh my
goodness the next time I go into doing
something like this I'm gonna make it so
much better it's gonna be so much more
efficient because I have an idea but you
really do have to like I think that's
what is one of the benefits of working
on such a large company is like there
really is everything and anything you
want available but you have to go and
find it you have to go and see who's the
best fit who aligns with the most and
there's there could be like multiple
options for that too
um but it's cool because you don't have
to essentially become an expert or delve
into everything on your own like you
just gotta go connect those people and
like network with the right with the
right people I don't know if you guys
have had that kind of I'm learning that
right now actually that's the exact
Journey that I'm on because I'm used to
like having the context of everything
and coming up with the projects or
having the ability to cop out of that
responsibility in that autonomy and be
like here's a ticket I can solve you
know oh yeah we were we were talking
about that such a different
ticketwhere this is like you gotta bring all
of it like the idea come about like oh I
want to do this thing I spoke to Justin
he's like all right go go figure it out
kind of like and then
recruit people yeah you have to write
your one pager you have to outline
recruit the right people all these types
of things
and yeah it was definitely like I don't
know it was cool it was definitely very
sometimes
it also helped me understand that I
definitely do not want to be a manager
definitely do not want to be a manager
do any of you have manager experience or
or want to uh I've had the lead
experience but not in that like managed
people manager yeahdo you is that like a career goal for
any of you
probably at one point at one point I
think yes for me but at the moment no I
mean in large corporates in big
companies it's it's difficult right when
you're up with so many different people
you've gotta but especially with remote
teams I guess it's hard with no teams I
always ask Justin how he kind of manages
like you said teaser manager right and
our team is spread across the world I
think I've asked so many times how do
you manage a team that is so globally
distributed and it's hard because in a
world today with everybody in so many
different locations it is going to be
difficult and whether I've got the grit
for that whether it's someone I want to
go down
maybe maybe not
yeah I'm the kind of same not anytime
soon and even later maybe like
I don't know I it I don't know I just
feel like I would feel responsible for
so many people's careers and that's like
tough It's like a tough position to put
yourself in it is in my opinion because
you want to be a great manager it's
hands off as well right so so you're
very much a people manager at that point
you're not necessarily doing a lot of
the tech stuff which is what I found or
what I would find quite difficult I
think because I like being hands on I
like being relevant with what's going on
I like playing with the tech
it's hot enough like dealing with admin
as it is as an advocate and doing slides
and sort of talking to people and
networking all that kind of stuff on top
of keep on top of your Tech and learning
you know making sure you can teach
people and code and do all these sorts
of different things that you want to do
but balancing is hard
the whole hands-off approach for me
probably wouldn't sit too well yeah
yeah that's why I need to have like
years of it where I'm like all right I'm
totally done with the tech let's move on
to something else yep so yeah so you
like like a challenge where you need
change
yeah because there's definitely a
different skill set for sure oh yeah
skills a different challenge you're the
one who people are coming to answers for
like like as much as it's difficult for
people who are getting laid off I'm sure
like managers who have maybe no Insight
or very little information like people
asking them I'm sure that's gonna be
like difficult as well yeah so no I I I
not I was actually a part of a exploring
leadership program internal to Microsoft
and I it was a really interesting
realization as we talked because it was
about individual contributor leadership
right at that so there's a difference
between leadership and management you
need you can have it in both but as you
get into the higher bands even as an IC
leadership's really important so I took
that but one thing that I realized about
my hesitancy to become a manager is
my performance is no longer based on my
actions alone and that makes me
uncomfortable and so like that was like
a big wake-up call to me is like that's
why I've actually avoided the advantage
of a track so much just because I'm no
longer in complete control of my
performance
it's you know I have to trust and
delegate that out and it's actually my
ability to give my team what they need
to be productive that's basing my
performance and so that I have to let go
of a little bit control and so I noticed
that it was a little bit of a quirk for
me that I've been working on
um is like I'm not necessarily set on
going to management but it was just a
really interesting insight to look at it
from that perspective and realize like
I have a little bit of a control thing
there you know that is that's kind of my
yeahit's gonna be toughAlso if anyone needs to
drop whenever you need to
yeah sorry uh yeah I had to apologize
yeah my internet just dropped for no
reason
no worse these these are very informal
streams like people expect the absolute
worst so we're good does anyone know if
the AI 900 certification is valuable for
a data engineer
I was having a conversation with one of
our colleagues who her name is Gabriella
she's actually a principal on the
student academic team
has extensive experience highly
recommend you all have conversation with
her if you can has extensive experience
in the AI space and she mentioned
something really cool about how AI
moving forward is going to become like
an additional skill to
the toolkit of a lot of different roles
so the same way that cloud is now
becoming something that a devops
engineer needs to know a software
developer needs to know it the same is
going to become for what AI actually is
so maybe if you ask me this question I a
year ago I'd have been like nah but now
I'm like I think I could see the AI 900
being which is something I'm also
considering for myself being valuable
for a lot of different roles curious
what other people think
yeah to yeah no I definitely think I
think
um I had this discussion at sibo with
Canal who has some great opinion about
you know Ai and replacing like a lot of
people ask okay I will replace us or
like is my job secure anymore
um and he has this interesting say that
AI will not replace you but people who
know Ai and know how to use AI will
replace you that's a good one yeah
so it was interesting and I but to
answer the question
it will be valuable for every engineer
as Gwen said now but yeah a year ago I I
did the AI 900
um in 2022 I think and yeah it doesn't
have much like things that are data
focused but now I think it'll be
relevant
yeah absolutely
anyone else got a opinion on that is
anyone currently upskilling in anything
AI relatedI'd say I'm looking into it more than I
ever did before yeah
um like I'm not I'm not an AI person but
I'm certainly trying to understand how
it all works a little bit more than ever
before uh you know you've got things
like charge EBT you've got the Google
part whatever that thing's coming out
and it's just understanding how it's
working how neural networks are working
all those kind of decision trees and
things and it's just been aware like
most of being aware rather than actually
knowing it I think being able to hold a
conversation around it is importantjust the impact it's out of my
day-to-day productivity has kept me
super interested in it um but I I've got
to drop this is oh what do I use it for
like I got a couple minutes
um just the programming aspect right so
in the cloud native world there's a lot
of different switching between like
whether I'm writing kubernet any
manifest or I've got to write some bash
or Powershell and I'm actually using AI
to translate the area that I because I
know it needs to be done I just don't
know the syntax and so just being able
to translate that super quickly uh and
then also co-pilot like having that in
there like I generated so cool it's it's
so I was working on a whole workflow
where we deployed bicep deployed
kubernetes manifest and then I started
doing document signing and it accurately
guessed
like probably 60 of the workflow to add
notation to digitally sign the container
certs and pulled in the right variables
and stuff and so it's just a huge
productivity boost
not having to write that boilerplate
code thanks
I was doing some bashed off with it but
by the way Liam and sorry Richard but
Liam and Josh we get co-pilot like
access to it you know right okay cool
yeah I didn't know that until like last
week someone was like here you can get
it from this I'm like what so that's why
I brought it up but yeah Josh thanks so
much for hanging out uh thanks for
having me Josh you'll probably see him
on my Twitter because we're releasing
Bachelor beginners next week uh so make
sure to follow him but thank you uh and
anytime you want to practice live
streaming let me know and we can take
you up on it thanks for having me it's
nice to meet you both
see ya nice to me see if anyone else
needs to drop at any point
[Music]
I'm going to jump back on that co-pilot
thing that you're talking about it's
like the conversion between different
languages is is awesome so I kind of
what I was doing I think it was like a
week ago because this is why it came up
I think about a week ago when because I
was pumping this through trying to find
out if we can get it for free I was on
the technical preview for a year and if
you're part of the technical preview you
then don't get like the 60 day free
trial so I was like how the how can I
get this but I want to try something and
I was building a an API server with
node.js and express and I was like I
know how to do this but what if somebody
doesn't know how to write this and go
how can I convert exactly that into go
and vice versa and then do it in Python
and then into C sharp it was like trying
to figure out how to do all these
different languages I don't know how to
write all of them so it was converting
it down like the right hand side in vs
code it's so cool so cool love it yeah
it's I don't know it was weird because I
was you know again I was messing around
with bash and I was like all right let
me see what I can get it to do and it's
so cool how it adapts to the context
that you give it it was because I was
like all right let me do a for Loop it
was like and pretty simple but okay let
me give it an array like a variable
array first and then I knew that I
wanted to iterate over that and I was
like oh my goodness this is so freaking
cool
so but again you need to understand what
you're doing like if you don't open a
book like co-piling like all right do
something for me what if you're not
giving it the right context it's not
going to know so it replacing you
not necessarily but if you know how to
leverage itGame Changer absolute game changer
that's why it's marketed as the pet
programmer right the pad programming you
need right it's not going to be it's not
a replacement program for you it's not
your new team it's not the next teammate
for you it's it's someone to help you
it's your co-pilot or something yeah
and I think that's true with like any
other AI tools that are that we are
seeing and an emergence in right it's
it's you need you still need to know the
right questions to ask and understand
the output of engineering exactly yeah
but I was yeah coming back to your point
if I'm trying or learning something in
that aspect yeah just to add to Liam's
Point yeah I've been reading about you
know how
they have been training so I I have no
like background in ml or AI so I don't
know like you know neural networks and
how these machine learning models are
trained how AIS learn basically so I've
been reading about those I was reading a
paper on Google they did where you can
now generate music with you know text
prompts that was really cool they have
like a really well detailed paper on it
it was cool to read
Liam where did you get that hoodie so
let's pull the Sidetrack but I I feel
like okay great is it the blue part part
of the hoodie is that like a shirt under
oh no that's part of the hoodie that's
like it's Microsoft Azure one yeah on
the back you have like audio
so in uh in
the UK Adam Jackson do you know him uh
he's the he used to be the deaf here
he's like GTM go to market manager yeah
yeah really cool guy and um with a lot
of the community stuff so when we run
Cloud skill challenges usually if you
complete three or more of the modules
um you can like send in that you've
completed it and then they'll send you a
code and then they send it out so
there's like a whole swag store things
you got like bags hoodies bottles the
bit bit a mascot I think they still have
a couple of those notepads things like
that really cool it's basically from
there
um I got a whole bunch of things a whole
bunch of codes yeah you would think it'd
be easier for us to get swag but you
gotta hunt that stuff down it's hard I'm
just gonna say that it should be easy
believe me when I when I went to Tel
Aviv in December I went to the reactor
over there when I was doing I was
talking to the conference I just my
whole suitcase was just full full of
swag I got ring lights I got notepads I
got power Banks I got the holster bank I
didn't miss anything they they have
really good like did you get those those
notebooks that are
um like Gray
like the reactor ones I got a bunch of
those because they're like great quality
okay all the stickers all in it but I
had I went to where is it uh Redmond
Redmond for build uh and I like to pack
my suitcase and all that and it's a
little bit lasting because I try to give
it away here
but yeah it's freaking hard to get uh
impossible swag here it shouldn't be
here we go any advice on upskilling post
layoff I was recently like go engineer
at Splunk but I don't know whether prior
is Passion or relevancy when it comes to
preparing for my next role
okay that's loaded yeah it's an evolved
question there I think
I think it was something that like
people tend to to kind of like on
Twitter or whatever provide advice it's
like we tend to forget like the the
human being aspects of like that kind of
impact like we're so quick to be like
upscale up skill tech tech and it's like
well there's humans and there's emotions
evolved here too so I would say like
first like
get a feel for where you're at
um because you know with like an out
with
a layoff I think there's also an
opportunity for you to realize like was
what was what I doing what was I doing
actually what I wanted to do or is there
somewhere else something else that I
wanted to do more what did I like about
what I was doing what I didn't like
about I was doing so there's an
opportunity for that
I guess it also matters like the
situation that you're in like you have
like massive urgency to get a next role
then probably easier to be in what
you're still in or do you do you have
some like leeway
um
I think that's like what comes to mind
right now it's like highly personal too
does anyone else have any insight thereI think just second what you said I I
don't think there's anything more to it
than that it's a very personal
it's a very subjective answer that you
could give so if I was answering that
question I would take time off I would
probably look at what I would want to do
next look what's hot in the market and
see what I would possibly be interested
in
um on the flip side if I really needed a
job tomorrow then it's like I know I'm
okay advocacy I know I'm okay
engineering I'll go find one of those
roles but I'm not going to go jump into
like an AI role for example because
that's not what I do
yeah I think you put it really well good
um like just coming back to that human
part of things you know it's like it's
about the reality like if if there's an
urgency like I would
um pick up you know maybe I'll reach out
to my old jobs and um go there or yeah
it's about the the need at the right
time I guess
yeah I would agree someone asked to me
here
GPS you see yourself going into Cloud
security
no but I see myself
I also feel like security is becoming
one of those things where it's like a an
additional tool that you should have in
your toolkit so I do see myself
upskilling in that area but I don't
think I would go full on like like the
day like dedicated Cloud security person
um but I think it's an interesting space
very high in demand very lucrative as
well
um especially when it comes to like
security with kubernetes security with
serverless securely with uh all Cloud
native stuff like I think there's just
so much untapped potential there but
it's just personally not something that
I'm
very interested in so not you ever
thought about becoming an ambassador for
like something security related
uh
Maybe
but I think the upskilling part is still
the missing thing
um
I don't know I I thought about doing
that for like Cloud native in general
because like the foundation has
ambassadors right oh my goodness my cat
is stepping on my camera also let me
turn this off
um but yeah I think I'm just like so
busy with everything else I've got going
on oh I can't move the cameraare you guys part of any other programs
outside of like or like um
Google developer expert anything like
that
yeah I'm I'm the part of the AWS
Community Builders now for the third
year
um and then also this year
um the getpad community heroum but yeah I've known so I recently got
to know about the GitHub Stars which is
which looks pretty good
um it's I think I think this look at
your open source contributions
so I don't know if I should yeah I don't
wanna no I was gonna say if I I don't
know if I should mention this on live
stream but I have nominated you Gwen
um oh thank you yeah so you can nominate
I didn't know I didn't know the program
existed first of all and second of all
how the nomination works so I started
looking it up it's as easy as you know
so anyone in the public can nominate and
then they look at your GitHub profile I
think and then see if you know you have
made valuable
um open source contributions and then
you receive an email I guess
so yeah I got to know about that through
like tweets and stuff so recently people
got renewed or something
um yeah so that is one those kinds of
things especially for students yeahthey have a student's one now yeah
they're just recently launched
Google
that's GitHub campus experts yeah
Google one is a Google student developer
clubs so you have Club captains and
stuffLiam are you part of anything outside of
Microsoft
yeah I am I'm an all-zero ambassador so
security focused I literally wanted to
know about security therefore did
everything I could to get into that club
uh that's how you do it also is a really
really cool uh company part of OCTA
um like absolutely totally awesome great
swag great people and it's a great way
to learn about security because they do
sort of constant training for you
um kind of like what we do with MVPs at
Microsoft but they do like consistent
training which is really cool not just
on their products but Security in
general uh also part of the dev Network
Advisory board but I also feel like that
that's like a huge bushel at the moment
so helping with hackathons and Community
conferences and how they're run and put
together that kind of stuff
nice very cool yeah I feel like six of
those too for a lot of there's a lot of
these programs that definitely help your
resume definitely help your learning
that are definitely for you to join uh
some do require nomination like MVP
still requires that but there are a lot
of them that are are essentially they
just look at your contributions in that
space which you can do at any level that
you're at like you're brand new and then
you start writing some AWS stuff like
you could you could join the AWS
Community build the program
um I think that's cool you also get like
networking with people who work at the
company or who are already part of the
communities or things like that it's
like massive
um like I mentioned student ambassador
programs stuff like imagine cup like you
can actually win like a like a meeting
with Satya Nadella that is so cool
can you imagine that so so many
questionsrolling them off one after the other
yeahyeah like but this and this also I think
just a great there's a lot of great
things that come from just networking
with people who are
somehow in a similar situation like if
all you have in common is like just
someone just for this Tech or something
like that then I think that's that's
awesome too but you may find other
students other people who are trying to
change careers or things like that just
by like putting yourself into these
things which I think is
definitely yeah lots and then you have
like other benefits too right like
credits and
um resources that you can utilize uh
especially when you think of students
right
um you get few money to spend on like
cloud services so you could host your
projects and stuff which is a cool thing
to have
um and then to Liam's point you get with
most of these programs you get training
um
which is good to have
a thousand percent well guys I'm gonna
end it here I gotta head home for the
weekend thank you so much for hopping on
it's a fantastic conversation
uh Liam I'll probably talk to you like
next week or something I will see you
next week
thanks for having me
thank youoh no I have a live stream on Wednesday
okay first hold on let's plug I have
Linux on Azure on Wednesday so come
learn about open source at Microsoft or
very uh interesting relationship with or
I guess our journey and relationship
with open source uh how to leverage
Linux on Azure and then we're going to
deploy some Linux stuff to Azure in my
in my talk do you guys have anything
happening this week coming upI've got the go show so contrary to
everything that's going on
um I'm I'm plugging the go show uh so
it's a bi-weekly stream which again is
starting on Wednesday 2 p.m GM GMT yep
uh UK time
and that is just gonna be talking all
things go I think this week I'm going to
be doing uh Json and how you can start
uh to manipulate data in go because it's
not very friendly uh it's not as
friendly as other languages but it's
also really cool and I'm going to be
deploying apps to azure showing you how
you can do that pretty easily follow
Liam on Twitter
Liam see Hampton's right there on hers
yeah Rich have you got anything this
week yep
um so this week actually I forgot to
mention when you were asking about this
week my first
um I've done my first sponsorship videos
and it's with Microsoft so oh cool way
to go
um you're welcome yeah yeah so GitHub
actions video is out and then next week
on Thursday uh there's a video that will
be on vs code and along with azure uh
functions so in Python
yes okay
okay everyone plenty to learnuh thanks everyone for hanging out