hi everyone today we're going to talk
about how to land a cloud job in 2023
from scratch this is exactly how I would
do it
and uh it's probably gonna be a longer
video debated on how I can make this
shorter more YouTube algorithm friendly
but ultimately there's a lot of
information that I want to share that I
probably just can't pack into a 5-10
minute video
so
do me a favor like subscribe comment
share all those good things leave a
comment please and
if not
it's just not going to do well and it's
not going to get shared to as many
people who will subscribe to the channel
because that's just how the algorithm
works but ultimately I felt like I
couldn't just make it really short
because there's a lot here I want to
share but
uh let's switch to the screen and I can
actually show you I'm talking about I
was I was like mapping this all out
earlier today but depending on what
scenario you're starting from I think
I've got you cut right here so if you
have no experience if you have some
experience if you have uh like you're
already software Dev trying to switch
into Cloud if you're uh some some kind
of already in a technical role trying to
switch into Cloud I've got you covered
here too if you've got nothing you're
starting from scratch I've got you
covered too so let's get started so I
think the the the first big part here is
understanding where you're at
so let's zoom in here and for example I
started
and we can probably say here like my
help desk gig this was my help desk gig
but before that I was working retail but
that retail retail job I was working at
App Store worked at The Genius bar so a
lot of that I did at like ticketing
system I had a lot of experience with
customers I had a lot of experience with
troubleshooting so things like that
really helped me build my case to go and
land a helpless job which puts me here
in this prereqs area
and
that was a support role which is entry
level for a lot of a lot of areas in
Tech like you can go support into
software Dev you can go from support to
Cloud support to devops support to new
name the cloud the the technical role
that you want to get into support is a
great entry level position to do it at
but if you're here and prior to you you
only have just a bunch of other type of
experience
find ways that you can relate to that to
get you here
so prereq land we'll scroll down here
probably you can get it done in a year
but this is pretty much your first door
into Tech like
this is
um either your support role but let's
start from the top either you have a
degree which kind of completes the space
for you you go through boot camp which
would probably complete the space to you
or you have a com or you have related
work experience
or you have a combination of this what I
call the self-taught
uh framework which would include
certifications and I think this is a
little
a little here confusing
but we'll talk a little bit more about
this too but what can you do to get here
well actually obviously you can get a
degree you can attend a boot camp or you
can get a help desk role plus self teach
yourself which in my opinion
this is the
the the best route probably I'm biased
because it's the route that I took but
what I why do I say it's the best route
well
let's talk about the degree part first
you can be you can have all the
technical skills in the world but if you
are in
a country or region or however you want
to define the limitation the limit there
not limitation
you that requires a degree then you're
gonna have to get the degree like yeah a
lot of you know Tech influencers or I
guess public facing people will just
blatantly make statements like you don't
need to agree to get into Tech but that
ignores a lot of the nuances as an
example I used to live in Ecuador and in
Ecuador there's a lot of prestige just a
lot of Pride there's a lot of
pedigree
towards having a degree
parents put a lot of of pride in being
able to get their kids to to go to
school have them see that through
and oftentimes many many entry-level
roles will require a degree so that's a
country where
you just have to have one you have to
have one that's it there's like no
there's no conversation about yes or no
potentially that's changing a lot more
now and that's the case in a lot of
countries
But ultimately saying yes or no you need
one it just depends on so much more than
if the job actually requires it so or
the skill set requires it keep that in
mind okay in terms of boot camps I'm not
a big fan of boot camps but I can see it
being useful for people who for example
you're working in a career that gives
you a certain amount of money and you
need to have that amount of money or
more because you have a family or
whatever financial responsibilities you
have and you can't go to like a help
desk job that could potentially pay less
or the same
so you doing a boot camp and projects
and certifications on your side your the
time that you have your side while
keeping that job could be a good a good
fit for you the only downside the boot
camps is one there's no real guarantee
that it's going to land your job
and two it's just crazy expensive I've
seen boot camps out there for like 20 30
30 000 and oftentimes I'll see boot
camps not not even just advert like
blatantly tell you what how much they
cost like you have to go and you have to
email them and you have to set up a call
and they have to first convince you and
then they tell you the price like it's
crazy the practices that they have
around a lot of these
a lot of these
um
boot camps establishments things like
that soum so there's that
that's why I personally think that the
the self-taught so the get helpless role
plus self teach which is what I did but
also you're not getting into any debt
you know you're getting paid you're
getting experience and sometimes you can
even Shadow additional teams
that like maybe you're working help desk
there's a cloud team there's a devops
team and you can sort of finesse your
way into getting some time each week to
Shadow them like each week to hang out
with them just in hours two hours a week
just to see what they're doing not
necessarily even do something but maybe
you can even build rapport and and this
team will help give you like low level
tasks that you can get Hands-On with but
you won't get that experience or even
that opportunity if you're not in that
kind of role and on the side you're
going to self-teach yourself
no that's sort of you complete this
phase I pretty much think you can do
this in a year it me for me it took me a
year and a half but I knew looking back
at it at a year or a little bit before a
year I was ready I was just scared I
didn't really know I was confused I
didn't know what to do but looking back
at now I know a year I could have done
it but it took me a year and a half ago
so in terms of the self-teaching well
what I mean by cell teach
the self-taught framework for success in
my opinion is two thirds and two
projects one associate level one project
that implements what you learn from that
associate level certification one
specialty sir and then that one project
that implements the knowledge that you
got from the specialty sir or bills on a
project your previous project so for
example
in my opinion it's probably better idea
to get like a wide range of skills so a
little bit more Niche than your help
desk but still pretty wide because
entry-level Cloud roles they're not
looking for someone who's super advanced
in AWS super advanced in Azure super
Advanced and
a terraform but someone who knows a
couple of these things enough to be
dangerous right
so for example if you get like the Azure
204 certification you go build a project
that implements that then maybe a good
certification would be like a Linux
related certification a
terraform-related certification a
networking related certification uh
something a little bit more developer
focused and something like that right
so think of like T like T shapes like
like you get your your
your
certification your social certification
some sort of cloud platform and your
projects are Cloud related so you're
building these t-shaped skills
and you have to you know have to find
some stuff that's complementary to that
okay so in terms of certain projects
that in terms of your projects we'll
we'll talk about projects a little bit I
will also say sharing and networking
your knowledge so using things like
Twitter LinkedIn YouTube and GitHub to
share your knowledge out there I highly
highly recommend you could also do Tick
Tock Instagram short form content I
think is great for this as well
share your knowledge but don't waste
your time here I'm gonna like add an
emphasis emphasis here
don't
waste too much
too much time here
don't let it consume you
don't be fake don't be fake
don't be annoying I'm gonna say don't be
annoying don't be annoying okay
see some tips here
in my six months Cloud study guide at
the very top here I'm recommending well
I factor into the six months I factor in
three days at the end of each phase for
documentation purposes so create a blog
post LinkedIn post YouTube video
synthesizing what you've built with your
new skills challenges resources you use
Etc don't try to come off as anything
you are not you are not an expert I'm
cannot tell you how many times I see
these LinkedIn posts of people just
trying to come off of things that they
are not it's okay to be at whatever
level you are at that is fine
it's not okay to fake it because you're
gonna get caught you're gonna get into
these into these
these interviewing opportunities where
you have no idea what you're doing no
idea where you're talking
and that's not good use your own style
your own voice no authenticity and
realness helps land jobs too 100 percent
I like to talk about this this framework
of Landing a job where it's 50 your
skill set everything that's in your
control skill set your resume your
projects that you've built the
certification that you have and then 50
just luck just opportunity right place
right time but I feel like that 50 there
you can improve if you're just a nice
person to talk to if you're a nice
person to work with if you come off nice
too uh or real or just you are who you
are
on on like social medias on these
networking opportunities on your initial
phone screening like all of that right
so keep that stuff in mind I really do
believe that that makes a change a a an
improvement to your chances as well
because ultimately we are people working
with people okay keep that in mind so
yeah
back here uh sharing your knowledge but
don't waste your time you the majority
of your time should be spent building
like enjoying uh the pro learning
process enjoying your life getting
studying all these types of things let
social media uh all decide forwhen you have some spare time okay even
I as someone who's now in the space you
know for a couple of years
have been trying to eliminate social
media more and more because I feel like
it's just not productive uh but for
knowledge sharing and for networking it
is productive so keep that in mind too
okay
so that's sort of your self-taught
framework for success and then with this
I think you can go so depending on where
you're at actually so if you have
related work experience you go and build
this stuff can take you this probably
can take you uh instead of one year
because you're not gonna be working
you're already in your related work
experience job so your software Dev
or whatever it is that you're at it's
probably taking you like three to six
months to go and build the things that
you need
and then you can go straight to applying
to your Cloud engineer Cloud developer
any role that has cloud in in the title
I've divided these types of roles that
you're applying to either Cloud exposure
roles or Cloud jobs that actually have
cloud in the world title okay you can
probably go straight to here once you
have everything that you need to build
for Success uh one thing I wanted to
show you is
uh GitHub when you're sharing your
projects in GitHub you want to have it
well documented like I can show you I
don't know like my timestamper projectyou can see here I have a little GIF of
how it works prereqs how to set it up
how to use it how it works and
contributing
some of these I even have something like
let's look at this one here
again I got the architecture up here
some more information some more
information running locally some more
information that I decided it's useful I
have also have known issues of things I
need to fix things I want to implement
stuff like that
but yeah don't have an empty readme use
it to give the instructions that people
need to implement your project or any
additional things that you find useful
there okay
all right so back here
yeah so Cloud exposure Cloud job roles
they're different
so you have your projects you know you
could probably go straight to applying
to your Cloud roles if you are here like
I was in this position where I had my
help desk and then I was trying to apply
to Cloud jobs but I just consistently
got rejected I took a step back and I
saw myself in in my skill set I'm like
okay maybe there's a step that I can
take in between here that's going to
better my my improvements so
from applying here so you know one year
help desk one year and a half helped us
experience and certifications project
jobs
projects and applying to jobs that had
cloud in them I was getting rejected
pretty much 100 of the time after my
year in my
in my year of
doing I did this admin gig here for
about a year then I was getting way
better I was probably at like more so 50
rejection but finally getting different
opportunities to interview and actually
showcase myself in interviews and things
like that I ultimately ended up not
going for cloud opportunities externally
and I got promoted after the year uh but
before we talk about that let's talk
about what this actually Cloud exposure
means oftentimes at the beginning
of you know wanting to get into Cloud
people will be obsessed about it has to
have Cloud on the title but that's why
I've added here stop caring about rule
titles care about descriptions any roles
that give you experience to things like
handling virtual machines scripting
ticking systems troubleshooting active
directory 365 programming will give you
Cloud exposure
especially things like active directory
in 365.
um but all these things will give you
skill sets that you can later on
Leverage for cloud jobs and ultimately
what matters to Landing a job is
experience experience is Queen
experience is up there experiences what
everyone cares about the most everything
else is secondary okay
so keep that in mind so any roles that
give you that exposure if you have to go
do six months to a year in that role
before so you can improve your chances
to go and go into Cloud role why not do
it
why not give it a shot these roles here
play pretty well like I was making 55k
this was and I was underpaid and this
was like five years ago so a lot of
these sysadmin Network admin Cloud
support roles Junior Dev rolls paid
decently and you're getting the
experience you want but ultimately in
your mind you got to remind yourself you
are not going to do this role forever
this isn't the rest of your life this is
only for the Year this is only your
stepping stone and a lot of times me
reminding myself to me make the role
more would make the role more bearable
would be like okay I just got to do my
best now because moving forward I know I
need all this stuff so keep that in mind
okay
so in here you're also you know
continuing your self-taught framework
for Success if you completed all of this
in like that year of your help desk gig
then what you can do is it just with the
knowledge that you get from this gig
here go and build on the certificate the
certification project that you built so
this project here well now maybe you've
picked up some active directory or some
programming skills like how do you
improve
those those skills how do you implement
those skills into these projects that
you've built and also since you went and
once you completed your first
certification your first project you go
you went and shared it you blogged you
made a video do a follow video be like
oh how I improved my
beginner project with a year of
experience or something like that I
don't know there's just plenty of
opportunities here right but continue
building that online portfolio continue
building in the network all that kind of
stuff and the best way to do that is
through your knowledge through actually
building stuff and sharing okay
so about a year year after that you're
now in the position that these people
with related work experience
have you now have your two years of
experience and you go and play apply to
your Cloud job your Cloud engineer Cloud
developer devops engineer any role you
want with cloud in it you're in a better
position now to go and get it
but as far as Landing a role any any
role actually
um a lot of these these these prereq
roles like help desk support these uh
Cloud exposure roles like this admin
things like that are a lot more lenient
and once you get to your Cloud role
you're probably going to get a lot more
whiteboarding a lot more technical
knowledge and expertise needing to be
showcased and this is also just a lot
more competitive because these pay a lot
better obviously
but interviewing skills and your resume
cover letter and Linkedin are important
every step
so let's dive a little bit deeper into
into this year so interviewing skills
it's practice practice practice practice
I sound like AI right now practice
practice
you shouldn't be going into an interview
and thinking about how to answer a
question like a soft skills related
question like if I asked you can you
talk to me about a situation where you
got negative feedback from a colleague
how did you handle it and how did it
improve your work moving forward you
shouldn't be thinking they're sitting
down
um I don't know uh oh this one time like
no
no no no no no no no
go and look up a list of soft skill
questions and sit down get the list and
just write down what your answers would
be I obviously don't make them up pull
them from your experience but be able to
speak to them in a way where you're
confident when you're confident
confident delivering even the most
simplest answer when you deliver it with
ease with finesse with confidence that
improves how you come off to your people
who are interviewing you but that also
improves how you feel about how you're
doing in an interview so then when a
hard question does come up
you've got your confidence up and you're
feeling like no worries I got this I can
figure this out okay so keep that in
mind it is all about practice figure out
the questions that are going to be asked
you in terms of like the soft skill
questions but also have a list of
questions that you want to ask there's
nothing worse than going into an
interview and they ask you okay do you
have any questions and you're like no
that shows that you didn't do your
homework that you didn't look up things
about the company you have even if you
have to just come up with a bunch of
questions that are like not fake but
things that you necessarily don't have
too much interest just the the
opportunity to ask someone at a company
a question gives you some Insider
knowledge on okay this is how uh they
approach answering questions so this is
how the specific person answers
questions things like that that is great
knowledge for you to know as well
because in an interview it's not only
about you finding a fit if you're a fit
it's also finding if that place is a fit
for you too right
another thing to add here is know your
projects in and out you should be able
to explain about a project why you
selected a service
um what and what things would you
improve what were your challenge is uh
what was the result things like that
like know it in and out I have a great
documentation around your projects if
someone asks you hey let's talk about a
project that you built on the side be
able to talk about it hey let's talk
about a project that you built at your
previous company be able to talk about
it in and out comfortable practice
practice practice practice practice
practice practice
record yourself watch yourself in the
mirror ask your partner to hang out with
you ask your best friend whoever it is
like practice these interviewing skills
these conversational skills this is why
I always recommend if someone has no
technical experience and wants to start
from scratch go on getting the help desk
scroll because the amount of customer
experience and people skills you develop
here because you're talking through
issues is phenomenal uh I get the
comment about hey Gwen you're so great
about talking on camera you're so great
talking to people like how did you
figure that out a lot of that was
helpless a lot of that was when people
were so upset about the fact that their
computer stopped working and they would
just trash me and I was like you know
what I understand it I gotta ask you
some questions to kind of reverse
engineer what's going on let's talk it
through a lot of that was from there
obviously a lot of it was just
practicing recording videos too but a
lot of that came from help desk okay so
practice practice okay
whiteboarding so I have a couple videos
on whiteboarding I'm going to actually
pull up my Channel right now
I have two I have one on
High availability in Fault tolerance and
then I have one on Ellis this elasticity
and scalability so you can actually go
to an architecture sensor whether that
be Azure AWS or gcp and just find a
bunch of different concepts that you can
reverse engineer in diagram but remember
that the most important part about
whiteboarding is not just you being able
to to to write out the concept but it's
it's your ability to explain and
communicate as you go because I can just
anyone can go and draw a figure on a
whiteboard but that's not whiteboarding
right it's also about you talking
through explaining your thought process
so keep that in mind so I think I do a
pretty good job with these two videos I
want to do more if you have any
recommendations on topics that you want
to see do them
you can also go to the architecture
centers and find architectures and just
reverse engineer them instead of so for
example if I if someone asks you oh
here's one of the projects that you've
built can you diagram it out can you
whiteboard out for you for me and then
you you you're walking through like okay
yeah so
here's this virtual machine I've got the
web tier on this one it's got the data
tier on here I've got a load balancer of
this type here I've got some network
security Loops here the traffic
interests here whatever you know you
just talk through talk through the
project that you built right
and this is your opportunity to showcase
your technical skill set and your
communication skill set which are two
very very big things when it comes to
jobs because we work with people we are
people working with other people okay
okay last thing on here is the resume
cover letter and Linkedin resume
tailored specific result driven and as
concise as possible at this point you
know if you're going the route that I
did you have
1.5 years in retail or any kind of
product prior experience before you hit
prereqs then you got your help desk
experience then you got your Cloud
exposure experience and now you're
applying to your Cloud roles right
so you got to go to one experience that
you can add there potentially the stuff
that you did before might not be super
relevant but if it is relevant tailor it
to the job that you're applying to I
know it's a lot of work to tailor
resumes But ultimately it's a game that
we all got to play it's perhaps a broken
system but we cannot fix the system I
want to emphasize this we cannot fix the
system if we're not in it we can go and
get into the system and make it easier
for other people to come in to make it
more of a fair opportunity I understand
that but we can't do that from the
inside we've got to do from the ins from
from the outside we got it from the
inside so ultimately this is a game that
we have to play everything that's that
they want is kind of out there laid out
we got a reverse engineer it and match
our skill set match our resumes our
cover letters our online presence so
that so let's go let's do it let's get
it done let's get in let's improve the
system and then you know hopefully it
becomes better for other people
but resume tailored uh look for the job
that you want and then see what they're
asking and align your skills align your
resumes align how you're explaining your
responsibility to that
specific results driven so instead of
saying so for example I in my assist
admin job I automated a process that
took 20 to 30 hours of my colleague 20
hours of my colleague's time of their
like manual work
automated to a process that runs in less
than an hour a week and for under 30
cents a month ultimately saving the
company hours and lots of money right so
that's sort of the result
there's a lot more people in the world
that can understand that statement than
me saying something automated a process
using Azure functions and several Azure
Technologies right
so the result is probably the most
important because ultimately you are
fulfilling a business need yes you are a
cloud engineer you're a cloud developer
you're a devops engineer but you are
fulfilling a business need
so you need to speak in business terms
you need to be able to to explain your
skill set in business terms
and then you can also add there like
okay so you did the first bite results
show and then add oh used Azure services
and you can put a line in there
describing what you use see how best of
both for its worlds you have the
business Aid and the technical need
covered there
results are driven
very very important okay
and as concise as possible if you can
keep it to a one page you're awesome if
you if youlike don't need to add you know how some
people have like soft skills interest
things I don't think things like that
matter your education your experience
and any projects I think that's all you
really need for your for your resume
keep in concise because people are just
glancing at these glancing at your
resumes uh cover letters
I personally have written I personally
have written cover letters for every
single job that I've wanted but
this is really up to you if if in my
opinion it's if the cover letter has
even one percent chance of improving my
opportunity to land an interview I'm
gonna do it so that's why I did it but
ultimately if you don't want to do them
it's up to you I recommend yes but
I can't tell you what to do okay cool so
that's sort of like the the the road map
there right
the last thing I want to share is sort
of what to use to teach yourself or or
what you need to cover
um and I'm going to show you learn a
cloud learn a cloud is actually this I I
tweeted this back June 19 2021 if I had
to learn cloud from scratch in six
months and gain a junior Cloud engineer
skill set
and I would do six weeks Linux and
networking Basics six weeks learning to
code eight weeks learning to Cloud
platforms four weeks some devouts
practices and lots of projects that you
face each phase this was a viral tweet
and I wanted to follow it up with you
know actually putting my money where my
mouth is and building something that now
has become the
most popular open source guide to cloud
computing it's free I'm not trying to
sell you anything but if you don't want
to use the guide that's fine but I say I
highly recommend just covering these
fundamentals here
fashion networking programming Cloud
platform devops and Cloud security again
if you don't want to use a guide to
learn that that's completely fine go
figure out how you do it but just cover
cover your backs with having that each
phase I do have
um
so it follows this
this here it follows how to break down
this phase so how how this phase applies
to how this technology applies to Cloud
how would you break it down resources
that you can use the majority of these
are free if not in my opinion affordable
less than 50 USD
and stuff that I've either
made or recommend
because I've used the majority of stuff
that I've used and I recommend I can't
create that much content and then
projects that you should build and
there's a knowledge checks called things
you should be familiar with at the end
of this phase
what I recommend is go into the phase go
to the bottom see if you can do the
majority of things here if you can move
on to next phase if you can't stay on
that face and go through that one
so there's one for Linux programming
again it follows that same structure
cloud devops cloud security and then
there's more projects if you need more
projects here on the left side some
other study resources
uh if you need sort of some more
mentality around how I study
successfully for classifications there
is a video here on that but there's also
blog posts in the description of video
and it gives you more insight of to like
okay and in your first Cloud job how to
find great study material how to
actually study stuff like that okay this
this guide is packed with stuff that
I've just recollected in my let's see
nine years working in Tech so
again if you don't want to use it
completely fine but the guy the guide
follows more so a kind of at your
leisure type of thing if you want more
of an intense program go to the six
month Cloud study pan if you go to the
guide and then click study plan on the
top left it'll take you there but it's
also made by made by gps.com forward
slash Cloud camp
let me zoom in on here here made by
gps.com forward slash cloud clamp if
you're interested I wrote this January
5th
um
I wanted to say the New Year giving
people something useful to learn
learn cloud computing so anyway do you
read everything the protocol kind of
gives you the mindset of like how many
hours you take what things should you
keep in mind how to take notes stuff
like that there's some instructions here
I am going to update this because I want
to incorporate
uh the use and the learning of gbt and
GitHub co-pilot because I really think
that that can perhaps not accelerate
your learning but it's going to give you
a lot more
knowledge and a lot more to learn
um
it might even be easier for you to learn
if you if you learn how to add it to
your skill set so anyway
it starts with telling you the topic
again why it matters and a couple of
instructions uh one link to Resource
that I recommend and it breaks it down
two weeks two weeks you spend ten days
doing this four days doing this
10 days doing this four days doing this
and networking python et cetera et
cetera so there's the time breakdown in
this also project ideas but more
importantly remember I said here that
the sharing and networking your
knowledge to build your online portfolio
and your presence and to meet more
people
well I added that I factored that into
the six months so I factored it into the
end I factored in three days retrace for
documentation purposes you can use them
who are that mean is after you spend two
weeks you spend 10 days doing this four
days doing this spend three days writing
about
your your process like uh talk about
create a blog post LinkedIn posts or
YouTube video synthesizing what you've
built with your new skills challenges
resources use Etc don't try to come off
as anything you aren't you're not an
expert use your own style and voice
authenticity realness helps land jobs
too and this is why you should keep a
daily study Journal so you can reference
things to talk uh or to write about
later okay so keep that in mind there
too
and that's pretty much it
um
one last thing I want to add is
you know you get to that point where
you're you're applying and
50 is in your controlling fifty percent
is not
well sort of 50 is like the skill set
the projects the certifications the
prior experience
and the other 50 happens to just be
opportunity luck uh right place right
time is the hiring manager in a in a
good mood but I often
find that you can improve that that last
50 percent by simply being a great
person simply being someone that people
like to talk to that people like to work
with that likes to help that gives a
good impression online that gives an
authentic impression online that gives
off a good vibe during that initial
phone screening oftentimes opportunities
simply can come to you because you are a
decent person and yes it's Tech yes it's
a lot of text technical skill set but we
are people
and people like to work with people all
right keep that in mind uh that's all I
got here is a pretty long video I'm not
going to edit it just gonna go straight
into YouTube and uh everything that I
shared here I will have in the
description
and I will share this diagram if this
video gets 400 likes all right
much luck to you if you have any other
things you want me to cover let me know
I will see you in the next one