all right today I want to talk about
why I think passion in Tech
is BSI don't think you need passion to get
into Tech
let's start from the perspective of an
employer tell me the last time you were
your performance was evaluated because
of your passion level or like on your
annual performance review there's like a
little box where you got to talk about
your passion
no
that doesn't happentell me the last time you applied for a
role and there's been a check box there
it's like do you have a degree check box
do you have passion for the role check
there that doesn't existlet's talk about employers replacing
roles and automating roles with AI and
ml
if passion mattered to them don't you
think that they would not do that
because Ai and ml doesn't have passion
but you know random person who's at this
role is like this person's really
passionate we should really keep them we
shouldn't replace automate them they
don't think like that
the moment that they can automate and
save money they will
so passion doesn't matter from the
employer's perspective and I don't think
it should because business is business
like I said in my previous video about
loyalty at a company
let's take a look at it from the
employee perspective I feel like the
people who push this narrative that you
need passion to get into Tech fall into
two categories there are plenty of
people who did get into the space
because they're passionate I'm not
talking about them I'm talking about the
people who push this narrative so hard I
feel like they fall into two categories
the first category are the people who
want to make themselves feel like
they're better or they're Superior or
that they're special and the reality is
that the majority of people are just not
super special
everyone's unique everyone has their
thing that's 100 true
but just because you have this fake
Narrative of passion doesn't make you
better than another person who's also
working in Tech okay
so I feel like that's the first category
the second category are the people that
use passion as an excuse to not do
something because it's too hard like
people can say like oh I can't get into
Tech because I'm not passionate about it
the reality is like you just don't have
enough interest or enough motivation or
enough discipline to see if it's
actually something that you want to do
passion is developed over failure and
success and repeating that Circle many
times and your ability to put up with
that
so if you're passionate about something
you'd be willing to do it without being
paid like you would be willing to do it
for free
and I'm 100 sure that everyone who is
like oh I'm passionate about this this
role in Tech if they were like hey your
salary tomorrow zero dollars you would
be out you'd go look for a job
ASAP
so that's why I think from the employee
stamp
it's like this standpoint of an employee
it's also BS now the narrative about
needing passion to sustain a career in
Tech is interesting
But ultimately I really do think that
you just need balances you need
boundaries and you need to work hard to
have a fulfilling career
because ultimately what your career
provides you is yes you can get
challenges you can get growth and all
that stuff but at the if you abstract it
to the highest level it is a business
transaction you are out doing some sort
of job and a business is paying you for
that money and that money is what
provides you life uh your lifestyle your
rent your mortgage the things that you
want to buy for yourself providing for
your family and people can have passion
for all those things outside of the role
and then the money the salary the
payment it just is just an ends to meet
those things right
so I I don't think you need it to
sustain a successful career I know
plenty of people who have even in just
other fields like I feel like in we we
want to make ourselves in Tech feel like
we're unique or special because I don't
know maybe because of the high salaries
but there are plenty people who work
other careers for like 20 30 years
they're not passionate about it yeah I
would say this is what I will say if you
don't have at least an interest then
you're going to be extremely bored and
you're gonna not feel challenged and
then that's just gonna make you
miserable for sure
so definitely go into a career with some
sort of interest because you know you
have the Curiosity to go and learn new
things and then that will help you
easily get more promotions because
you're upskilling stuff like that for
sure like don't get into Tech
and if you try it and then he's like oh
I really don't like this like don't
stick to it either no if yeah all you
need is just some interest right
and a lot of hard work for sure
um
but like I was saying like there's
plenty of people who are passionate
about a bunch of other things and then
Tech just enables them to fulfill those
types of things
I don't think I've ever been passionate
about any role that I've had in my I
started working when I was in in 2014 so
about nine years
up until
this last role that I'm in with my
current role as a cloud developer
advocate in Microsoft
I had a lot of interest and I felt very
challenged in certain aspects of other
roles that I've been and especially the
cloud engineer one
which made me continue wanting to pursue
this cloud computing field
but it's not like
I felt like oh my goodness this is my
life calling or this is my purpose like
I was meant for this like this is what I
would do even if I wasn't being paid
like no absolutely not
I have a nice sense of fulfillment and
um there's a lot of overlap between the
things that I am passionate about and
the work that I do day to day for sure
I think the thing that I'm most
passionate about life and that I've
always had of like a very soft spot for
myself is helping people because of my
mother my mother is someone who gives
every ounce of her to anyone who needs
it and her phrase that she has instilled
in me since I was very little was to
give with no expectationand as I grew up I was like I want to
how do I do this like I have this very
important sort of sense of self
to help
but as a kid you don't really know what
that means as a teenager you I was a
teenager I thought I was going to be a
musician like I loved playing guitar I
loved singing I loved writing songs uh I
grew up a little bit more and I learned
how to like produce music and use
Ableton and use midi controllers and
stuff like that but ultimately when it
came down to pricking a profession
actually starting like picking a major
in college
I sat down and I was very real with
myself like how am I going to make money
I had taken some electives that I was
pretty decent at in in high school of
programming
so I went into systems engineering
but I loved
music I loved communication I loved like
talking to people and and just overall
being creative I just didn't have like
the full image of what that would look
like as
you know an adult or as maybe a career
so I went into systems engineering
because I didn't want to be a bum and I
didn't want to be poor I dropped out
obviously after after two semesters and
they worked my way up uh into where I'm
at now but it wasn't until this role now
where I sort of find some overlap
between you know creating technical
content where I get to help others
because I'm teaching something and I get
to communicate and I get to be creative
with the you know because videos making
videos and has is a very creative
Endeavor but that took me you know
2014 I joined Microsoft in 2021 six
yearsbut I will also say that this what I do
now isn't tied to this role or to this
company like if there was another role
in another company that enabled me to do
this better
I would go pursue thatand also I could continue to teach and
communicate without having a role that
has any overlap with it whatsoever
yeah I feel like I'm ranting now I'm
doing like a brained up now but anyway
you don't need passion to get into Tech
you just need to work really really hard
your ability to work really really hard
is depends on a lot of things I would
say you do need to have an interest and
you do need to have a lot of discipline
but a lot of that comes from other
things in life
like for me earlier on I was like I just
really don't want to be poor I really
don't want to be a bum I really got to
work hard in this I really got to work
my way up for some people that might be
their family for some people that might
be
um I don't know it could be anything you
might have a cat that you need to
provide for something like that
all right
that's it for this video and for those
people who are saying that you need
passion to get into Tech your
gatekeeping that's just it