mm-hmmoh yeah I'm on the I'm on it already I
thinkyepthank youyeah sounds goodoh okayall right everyone hi uh so sorry I know
everyone could hear us before I'm trying
out this new like streaming uh sort of
like back end
and uh
sort of last minute I tested it a little
bit yesterday I'm not 100 familiar with
it but anyway hi uh take a few minutes
to come to the chat tell us where you're
checking in from all those good things
but yeah I have uh Lucy here Lucy I've
been wanting to talk to you for a long
time
um so I'm very happy to have you here
but why don't you give us like I don't
know a 30 second introduction before I
start just hitting you with questions
yeah first of all great to be here uh
yeah for those watching welcome and this
is actually the second time
um I've met Gwen
um and so it's like a lot of people just
assume we kind of like met before
already but yeah today we're going to be
talking about you know all things
related Solutions Architects but just
having a chat as well
um around like YouTube and things like
that as well but yeah so
um a bit of an introduction I'm Tech
with Lucy otherwise you know Lucy Wang
and uh I started off my Journey on
YouTube around 20 around two years ago
so that's when I started off
um also my Solutions Arctic role at AWS
so bit of background I worked at AWS for
two and a half years and last week I
actually quit my job to do YouTube
full-time uh but yeah today as I
mentioned happy to chat about all things
related to what it's like being a
Solutions architect at AWS any YouTube
questions as well or just like you know
any questions around cloud in general
happy to help answer
I we started our YouTube Journey around
a similar time I'm I think I might have
started before you
and and I I told you this because full
disclosure to people in the audience
we've our the first time we actually had
a proper conversation like actually just
you and me talking was was that two days
ago or yeah yeah two days ago right we
sat down for like 30 minutes just to do
a little bit of a tech check and then
um and I I remember telling you that I I
saw you like you started your channel
and then everything just kind of like
took off for you for the last couple of
months and now when I think of cloud and
like specifically AWS you're just like
the person to go to in my opinion so
congratulations that is a lot of work as
someone who does YouTube as well and and
you know doing it with a full-time job
that takes a lot
um it's not like you know you get to do
it on the job or
um it's something easy to do you know
people will see like an eight minute ten
minute video but that's probably on
average what two to four hours maybe
even more depending on how much research
you had to do and all those kinds of
things so you know I'm not surprised
considering how smart and disciplined
you are that you are at where you're at
and I know you made this big change in
your career too I would love to talk a
little bit more about that I'm sure
people have questions but let's start
from the from the from the beginning
when when did you Lucy know that you had
an interest in cloud computing or how
did that happen
was it like earlier on in school or is
it something that sort of came later on
or did you get into AWS first and then
you were like oh this seems kind of cool
yeah definitely not in school I didn't
really hear much about the cloud in high
school or university uh I think yeah it
is when I actually started my internship
at AWS because I joined in a
non-technical role so I didn't really
know too much about the cloud side of
things I kind of joined because I found
the role to be interesting
um and so yeah it didn't really get too
much Cloud exposure and as a lot of
people know as well Cloud isn't really
taught in University
um I think it's decided to introduce it
to the curriculum now uh but yeah my
journey with text started off pretty
much with AWS I did study information
systems in University so it was a degree
at combined business and Tech and got to
learn about the applications of
Technology like you know for businesses
but yeah like at the time I was just
keeping my options open looking at
Consulting companies looking at tech
companies and just
um where I could you know find like you
know a career to build within that kind
of space but only Niche down into Cloud
I would say yeah after joining AWS and
you know like being architect did you
have any
certifications prior to coming into AWS
no no certifications before AWS I would
have done certifications I think if my
role was a technical role but my
internship was a non-technical role so I
wasn't working with like Cloud at all
um I did do four certifications before I
started my Solutions acting role because
at the time I wanted to you know like
improve my cloud skills right and then
just help make the transition easier so
did four sets uh before starting the
full-time role okay awesome so but I
want to talk a little bit more about the
search but before that I think something
that there I feel like people always ask
is landing internships while you're at
school can you can you talk a little bit
more about like how that happened for
you and what kind of things you felt
helped you stand out or help you like
land actual internships at like a
massive company like AWS
yeah uh I haven't talked about this in a
while now because people usually just
ask me about how to get into the
full-time role um but this is something
I'm really interested in as well
um I think what helped me stand out was
just the work I was doing with the
university so I was pretty involved in
the student Society space doing case
competitions just trying to improve
myself skills and just like problem
solving skills because I knew that you
know that not only helped me build up my
skills you know things that I wouldn't
be able to learn through University
classes but also just help increase my
network of people as well so
um met a lot of incredible mentors as
well throughout my time at University
and I think that just came from getting
involved wherever I can in the student
clubs and things like that
um specifically for getting into AWS
that was actually I didn't end up just
you know applying through the job portal
I saw a job posting or like you know the
hiring manager shared on LinkedIn that
they were looking for an intern so I
literally just I like the post and then
I just messaged the hiring manager is
awesome yeah and then that whole process
just started with like putting me in
contact with the recruiter and then just
starting this interview process pretty
much the next day the next day was when
the phone interview was
um so I would say like think about
unconventional ways like you know like
not the typical ways to like learn an
internship because I think at this point
it's pretty hard to stand out in a way
like because there's so many people
interested in the same roles and
especially with that kind of freezes and
things happening yeah it is quite
Limited in the positions
um so yeah like things like reaching out
to recruiters posting on LinkedIn like
okay that could also work be before
landing your internship you didn't have
a YouTube channel because you said you
started that while you were at uws
correct
so in terms of any kind of online
presence where
um were you doing anything else or did
you have sort of anything uh that you
would say help you stick that or was it
like primarily LinkedIn and the stuff
that you were doing at school
yeah I think mainly at school um I
started a student Society it was called
the unsw Digital Society so all I know
about people helping people get into
Tech so naturally that got me pretty
involved in um kind of so my role was
co-president but also I was working with
those companies recruiters to host
events together for the University
campus so I think that was quite a
interesting role and I think that took
up a lot of time as well so that I
didn't really have much time to do
things like YouTube or stuff stuff like
that but yeah I can't imagine that was
kind of like my main starting point
um or like things that something that
made me stand out but yeah everyone like
just needs to find their own thing like
whether that be posting on YouTube
creating a Blog
um getting involved in Societies in so
many ways so it's it's good advice do
you have any LinkedIn advice like any
any tips you have maybe on the top of
your head that you feel people should
take more advantage of or Implement in
their own profiles
um yeah
um I realize on LinkedIn the posts that
do well and just like people who have a
large presence on LinkedIn don't
necessarily have to be like the subject
matter expert in what they're talking
about a lot of them just documenting
their Journey so let's say
um you start your study for a cloud
certification or you'll build a car
project I think just making a post just
documenting what you build listing out
um the steps you took and just providing
some like advice to students who are
also Journey can really go a long way as
well okay so just having that mindset
that you don't need to be an expert
before you start posting on LinkedIn
like I I love that advice
um you know you're talking about
projects and certifications and I when
you think cloud you think um sort of
getting into Cloud
um everyone thinks certifications is
such a popular topic and I know you have
you have a lot of videos on it I've done
some videos on it as well uh but I want
to hear more about sort of your journey
with certifications what was the first
one what was the last one you got what
which one do you feel like was the most
useful let's start with that first let's
start actually let's let's take it one
by one because I have a lot of questions
here and I'm sure the chat will have a
lot of questions here as well but what
was the first certification you got and
how long did it take you to study for
that one
yeah so first one was the AWS Cloud
practitioner certification uh that one
took me about three weeks to do
part-time so I think around two hours a
day
um
you know go through the course material
and also the practice exams as well
um yeah that was the first one
what was the study approach for you like
because I I'm that was your first Cloud
certification right
yeah and
was it significantly harder sort of
because you're coming out of school and
at school you're sort of kind of know to
study like a certain way and do you feel
like the way you study for your
certification was a little different
what was that approach look like how was
that learning process for you
yeah I actually found it easier because
in University there's a few courses that
just aren't interesting and you're like
why am I learning this
um a lot of studying in University was
kind of like studying for the sake of it
whereas this one I knew that all the
knowledge that I'll gain from
personification will actually be quite
useful if especially if I was to stay in
AWS so I was a lot more motivated to
study for that so that's why sometimes I
always recommend to people like always
know your why like before you even study
like why what's your end goal like why
do you want to study for certification
is it to land a job in the future is it
build your technical skills things like
that
um so yeah the learning approach was
quite similar to University because
quite similar
um you study the theory you watch video
courses and then you take an exam same
with University so I think the process
like quite similar but yeah is more
enjoyable studying for this because I
was actually working towards something
for for that first so um for those
aren't familiar the cloud practitioner
is uh not the entry level
um but it's the one before the associate
level I don't really know I guess
practitioner level would be the correct
term
I don't in my opinion um so I've taken
the equivalent in Azure so that the 900
so the fundamentals it's not easy it's
not simple I think a lot of people will
I heard the opinion of like it's like a
certification that's not worth it
because it's just entry level et cetera
et cetera but I remember taking the
fundamentals with two years of azure
experience and barely passing so it's
definitely not a walk in the park
um but did you find yourself like the in
as you were studying for that
certification were you already like
deploying things in AWS where were you
getting Hands-On
um or was it more just like a theory
kind of like studying
type for you
yeah compared to the other
certifications I've done this one was a
lot more theoretical um but the Hands-On
that I did was through the video courses
so the video courses that I bought
um they had some Hands-On things that
just even started with basic things like
setting up MFA and like launching um ac2
instance just basic things like that I
felt like I would like doing I could
easily just like you know Skip the
Hands-On and things like that and
probably still be able to pass but the
Hands-On just helps like you know retain
the knowledge so much better and it
makes it feel like you actually learned
something instead of like you memorize
something so uh yeah like with that
point about you know like skipping
straight to associate certification I've
gotten those questions as well like
should I skip straight to Solutions
acting associate
um but I think if I was to go back I'll
probably do the same approach to
studying for cloud practitioner because
in hindsight I could but it's just like
doing that foundational certification
help build up my confidence and just
gave me the encouragement to take a step
further and like do another
certification whereas I might have to
support like oh Solutions after
Associates it's too hard I don't want to
do this anymore so that could have been
the potential so I always recommend
doing the foundation one first I like I
like that approach because even if maybe
you don't gain the most AWS knowledge or
Cloud knowledge in general from
foundational certifications you are
learning how to study for certifications
and it's easier if you're you're not
like familiar with something like that
it's easier to do that with I guess
content that is more entry level
friendly
um that it's not because
it's it's another it it almost becomes
like uh a challenge itself to learn how
to learn these things because being
self-taught can be difficult and sort of
like the the when you set yourself up
with like for success and with the least
amount of obstacles and resistance
um which something like a foundational
certification will do for you it's it's
like you're building a habit of learning
and studying which I think is fantastic
do you remember well the hardest part
for you to learn about that service
oh this is two years back let me try and
think
um
hardest part might have been just
Concepts that oh because you know like
with the courses they try and be like as
accommodating and inclusive as possible
as in like um if there's any I.T
fundamentals that they introduce they'll
try and just give a summary of it
um there was some stuff that I've just
never come across before like I didn't
really know too much about the
networking side of AWS like how disease
work and stuff and then so that I think
some sort of Concepts took me a while to
learn because I had to just take a step
back and just yeah do a bit more you
know study on the I.T fundamentals
um but sometimes yeah it just depends on
the video course that you take and
things like that because sometimes the
more detailed courses actually help you
cover the initial fundamentals as well
true I I like that and that also Builds
on the point of you know their learning
material
um you know you mentioned you use this
course you were using courses video
courses and I think sometimes people get
frustrated because they try to use
content that's worked for other people
that may not work for them
um so that's also important something
that you find along your journey of
studying it's like oh this type of
content I've learned that it doesn't
really work for me and maybe I can learn
better with like a different kind of
approach for me
studying for that Azure fundamentals the
hardest part for me to stick was all
like slas because you get asked about
like what's the SLA for this service and
then you're supposed to know the
difference between like 99.99999 versus
like
99.997 like like I don't know so that
part for me was was
Maybe
a little bit boring which probably made
it harder to study for
learning memorizing like yeah I don't
know like I probably forgot that after
like right after I took the
certification I most likely forgot about
that one
um so after the practitioner what was
your next cert
uh Solutions Arctic associate yepI went a month after sitting the
chiropractitioner um but I think that
took about three weeks so like I just
took a week off after doing our practice
started studying for it about three
weeks there was a lot of overlap between
the two sets okay
similar services and everything but just
from the perspective of like if a
Solutions architect were to like you
know um architect things on AWS like how
that would look like so the questions
were kind of around the perspective of a
Solutions architect
okay yeah you did three weeks for the
practitioner one week sort of like a
break and then three weeks studying for
the art the solution architect and did
you pass it on like first try
yeah that one first try
um there was one that I failed twice I
think I think that was when um I first
got to know your channel as well because
you commented on that one uh it was the
assist of certification that that's a
tough one I've heard yeah it's pretty
tough and I think that made it tougher
result it introduced like Hands-On Labs
now within this test
um but yeah we can talk more about that
one later
yeah um
you you this I want to dive more into
solution architecting in a little bit
but let's I want to continue talking
about this certification Journey you you
take the solution architect and then
what do you take after that did you take
another week off before the next one
oh that one I think it took a bit of a
longer break I think two months after I
did the developer associate exam okay uh
so I think I think I took a longer break
for that one but that one I think
probably took another month of studying
as well okay did you feel that
because of that month that you took off
that uh you might have lost anything
that like or do you feel like maybe it
would have been more beneficial to take
it like sooner or like how do you feel
about that time that you gave to
yourself between the two
yeah
I definitely would have um uh had like
been a memory retention and things like
that if I did a singer I don't think I
needed that break
at the time I was doing certifications I
was studying full-time in uni and I was
also interning part-time at AWS so I
think I just needed a bit of a lotsociety as well so yeah
I'm actually more free these compared to
like you know two years ago
yes I I commend people who do who work
and then go to school or go to school
and work to any capacity because the
amount of things that you have to be on
top of and then also I feel like we tend
to forget that we are also all human
beings that have just full
responsibilities of so many things
outside of work outside of school and
some of us have may have more some of us
have may have less so to handle all of
that at the same time it's just it's a
lot so I'm glad you you did give
yourself a Break
um between those two did how did you so
the only AWS certification I've ever had
was the developer associate and that was
the one that I took when I was up from
my helpless job to into my sis admin job
I took that one it took me six months to
study for that certification
six months because I was they didn't
have the practitioners or fundamentals
or any like associate was the I guess
the first level
um back then so I was like I was like so
obsessed and back then there was did you
ever use Linux Academy
did you ever hear Olympics Academy
I heard of it
wait I forgot who acquired who like yeah
a code grew acquired Linux Academy and
then plural plural site acquired a cloud
Guru so I guess Linux Academy is now
part of I don't know but I used Linux
academy uh and back then they were
probably like one of the only learning
platforms to to learn this type of
content
um
but I remember they had like a couple of
different a court maybe I think they had
like two but they were really long and
then and then they had Labs at the end
of each like the way they divided
everything was like essentially like
modules like module one had like six
videos a lab and then you had to pass a
lab before moving on very much like what
a club Guru is like now that kind of
style but it took me six months and I
remember like passing for that and I was
like
I think studying for that
um was one of the most fun funnest
things that I've done in terms of like
studying in general because you know we
go to we have school middle school high
school I did like one year of college
and out of all the things that I studied
that entire time studying for that six
month certification was the most fun
that I've ever had so I wonder what was
your experience with it
um did you like it and over tell me how
did you how do you feel about that sir
yeah oh wow that's a sign right it's
like if you really like it then you know
you should probably be doing something
similar as a job exactly exactly so yeah
develop I don't think I was super
excited for last time it was kind of
like because I've already done like uh
two at that point I was like okay this
is my third one
um a lot of overlap as well for with the
solutions I think Associated it was just
from the perspective of someone who's a
developer um building on AWS for example
um I think that one had more like Ci CD
and like a few other like developer
Services as well I think that was like
the main difference but overall quite
similar
um but yeah good experience with the set
um yeah that one didn't feel too bad
about pass on the first go not like okay
yeah quite okay after that you got this
up sys UPS one and do you do you
did you take a break or was it like
immediate into it
I think it was immediately into it
but I think at that point I just kind of
cut my I had a mindset that like I've
already done like the other associates
that's already like this one would be
quite chill like I can probably just
study a little bit and then pass it
um but then no like yeah solutions that
like the CIS of swan uh it does take
more time because yeahpeople definitely always say it's like
the hardest out of the three sides and
it does need a lot more Hands-On
practice as well to be able to answer
those questions because there was a lot
of like monitoring troubleshooting
questions like what happens if this goes
wrong so it's like you can only kind of
get that experience if you've like
actually been Hands-On and like taken
time to do all the labs okay um so yeah
kind of learned it the hard way because
even the second time I was doing it I
didn't do too many Hands-On labs and
then the final time I'm like I can't
feel it more than twice uh so I actually
put in profit effort for the third time
okay do you do you remember which one
you got the best score onum I'll probably just the first one like
yeah that would make sense yeahyou're right you're right you're right
do you
have out of the four which one was
your your least favorite to study for
eignif you could only have taken one which
one would that be
[Music]
um
good question yeah yeah
probably Solutions Arctic associate okay
because I think that would be the one
that I probably could try and do without
cloud crack knowledge and also I think
that's the one that's
um it's the most popular one like I
think that's the one that most the most
people have taken
um that one and then yeah because for my
Solutions are acting role I think that
would have been the most helpful as well
anyways uh but it will depend on what I
would what what role I would want to get
into as well okay after my internship so
okay and and
looking back also at like the approach
that you took for the certifications is
there anything that stands out to you
that you think you could have done or
changed so it would have gone better or
just anything you would have changed
about that whole processyeah I think more Hands-On
um and more hands-on experience and also
probably I'll tell myself not to rush it
too much and just like get a set done
every single month I'll take my time
because as I was studying for the
certifications of the services sometimes
I just really wanted to just like check
out the service in the console build
some things but then yeah because I had
already booked my exam for the month
after I was like okay I need to kind of
be smart with my time and just study
what I needed to study in a way so I
think yeah I would have taken my time
especially if there was no particular
rush in like you know doing those
certifications all right do you have any
interest in certifications outside of
the AWS ones to to take now
um or do you have any plans for new
search that you want to take
I'll have to look into it um but people
have like recommended some sales
especially on the I.T fundamentals I
think that's something I would love to
just get strong at just learning like
networking security and just I've had
things like you know CCNA like the
comptr sets
yeah it'll be interesting
yeah but I think so it's not the top
priority at the moment because I think
uh it was really quite the start to snap
your a learning plan but then I think
now I know what specific areas I want to
dive deeper into that's that's actually
a great pivot into into sort of
answering some of the questions we have
in the chat because
um I search a very popular topic uh let
me take a look here
uh here's a question from ar8 were you
working in cloud while taking the
practitioner certification
I was working at AWS uh but not in a
cloud role so I don't think it really
helped too much it was it was cool to be
involved in like the AWS culture I was
doing it because other people like my
colleagues were also studying so that
Community was nice but I didn't really
get to apply any of that during my
internship like the actual Cloud skills
and everything okay awesome uh let's see
it's here's one from Steven it's Cloud
practitioner important or should I go
straight to learning Cloud solution
architect I think we touched a little
bit on this but I maybe if you have just
like a straightforward answer for this
go ahead
um
yeah we talked about this so
um star practitioner I think it's like
both our personal recommendation because
we're always recommend to start off with
the foundation one you know build
confidence and then go on to Solutions
architect
um but then if you feel like you can go
straight to it that's fine as well
um yeah if if you feel like especially
with people with like previous Cloud
experience or I.T experience going
straight to Solutions I think associate
um I don't see too much of a problem
especially if they feel like it's not
too much of like a learning curve going
straight to that yeah yeah exactly I
think
um
people I usually recommend people to
stop seeing certifications as something
that you just need to get to put on your
resume and more so as like like a
complete experience you're you're giving
yourself a curriculum curriculum you
have guided learning there's so many
resources out there that you can use to
learn and take your time but it's also
an opportunity for you to discover how
you learn when it comes to like
different Cloud things because like you
know once you stop take your
certification you're done studying
that's not where the end of your
learning
like that's not where it ends like that
is just the beginning and if you you if
you really yeah you you put the work
into really understanding how you can
learn new things like the next time or
the next couple of months if you need to
learn containers if you need to learn
serverless if you need to learn
orchestration if you need to turn on say
ICD like a bunch of other things you'll
be able to take the foundations from
studying from like guided or not I guess
outlined things and going into uh
different topics and I just I just I'm
just a big fan of learning how to learn
inserts are a great ways to to test that
out and try that out and don't just do
it for
to share on LinkedIn in order to share
on your resume and things like that
right uh all right let me take a look
here what else we got before we dive
into different topics
um
so you need both developer and sysop
certifications for AWS devops cert or
one out of the two I don't really know
how AWS certifications work to be honest
I'm pretty sure if you go to that AWS
certification page it'll tell you the
prereqs right it'll outline what you
need to get
I think just from memory they removed a
lot of like the previous prereqs they
used to have I'm not sure if that's a
prereq though um yeah it might be good
to double check on the site yeah the um
the information will be there and also
the one thing I've learned about
certifications is that uh especially
with the Azure ones they're always
changing the number the name sometimes
change the pre-works changed how to
renew the process chains so your best
bet is always going to be just go to the
page and see what what is like the
latest outlined uh there let me take a
look here what else do we got uh Richard
says definitely the sysops was the hard
hardest of all the three Associates but
it is fun so is this this Ops
what is it more focused on like I I've
never looked at the the content of it um
is it like
I guess what would the CIS Ops
certification translate into a role
because like you know you think
developer associate be the cloud
developer solution architect solution
architect what about this this apps one
potentially sis admin
okay yeah I guess I was thinking that I
was thinking like maybe Cloud admin
sysadmin
um so I would imagine it it's probably
like a lot of networking
um
is there like some security stuff in
there too
security monitoring troubleshooting yeah
all of that okay almost it could
potentially be a prereq to like devops
too or like an intro or a primer to
devops as well uh cool so people are
saying like you don't need the prereq
you can go straight to that one awesome
all right let me see there's a bunch of
other questions people keep adding them
in there we'll try to take a look at
them uh but yeah so anyway we're talking
about certifications and and now you
feel like
along did you take you that that
all right actually you took four
certifications uh what cert did you land
like move into like the cloud role at
AWS
uh I think so right after um but I I had
already known that I was going to join
that role so I got the off I think back
in September of 2020 and then that's
where like I was studying for search so
I started for my cloud practice August
and then wrapped up with systops in
December so I had already known that I
was going to be a Solutions architect at
AWS I received that return offer
um but then yeah it was only until
January the next year in like January
2021 did I start um the actual Solutions
acting role okay okay so these were in
preparation for that role so you were
doing all this to sort of kind of hit
the ground running and successful yeah
because I was yeah that was like like
yes
um it's quite scary just going straight
into that kind of role without some prep
um especially because my cohort they all
study like computer science in
University and when I study information
systems it was a lot next
so I just wanted to just like you know
brush up with the skills Cloud skills
and everything beforehand just so I can
you know
do the role absolutely the the that
change from because you mentioned your
internship wasn't necessarily Cloud
related and then going into your
solution architectural it was like how
did you how did that happen how did you
manage to to get you know the role from
The Internship yep
oh it was a pretty like kind of
case-by-case situation at the time
because two years ago in Australia AWS
interns were still quite new like the
idea of having interns and graduates was
still quite like you know like they just
introduced the program so they had
absolute like full-time associate
Solutions acting roles but at the time
they didn't have many solutions Arctic
interns so they had to find interns from
other teams who were interested and then
they saw that I had somewhat of a
technical background so they asked if
you know if I were to return would I
want to be an associate Solutions
architect in that techu program or would
I want to consider a different role
potentially in like sales so I kind of
was given two choices whether to kind of
be a sales rep or be a Solutions Arctic
and had a lot of conversations with like
both people and I think in the end
people were like it's easier to start
off in a technical role and then move
into a non-tech role if you're
interested online rather than the other
way around yeah
interesting
and it's interesting how things
tend to work out and and a lot of people
will say like oh it's just luck but I
think it's just like the fact that you
were like the right person with the
right enough of the skill set to be able
to take that opportunity to like all
right yeah if you need like these types
of interns I mean these interns for
these type of kind of new thing that's
going on uh and that landed you to that
I think I think that's awesome it's it's
because oftentimes people will ask for
like oh what's the advice to to like
land a role or whatever it is and it's
tough to say that sometimes it is
like just things that you have no no
control over like you didn't have
control over the fact that this program
was somewhat new in the area that you're
in that you're in right um I remember I
landed my my sis admin gig which had
which is where I learned Azure
um because I had just moved from one
city to another city and my old job my
help this job was going to be over an
hour and a half one-way commute so both
ways over three hours with traffic and I
was like there's no I'm doing it I'm not
gonna do this and then the company that
had the sysadmin role happened to be
closer to the newer city and happened to
be hiring at their side on the same time
and then I I applied and it worked out
but if I had never moved I would have
never been like looking for a new role
right yeah
yeah I and I had no control over moving
because it was like a thing with my
parents it's like oh I had to go with as
they were making the move I would have
to move to so it's like a lot of times
it's there's things that you have no
control over that make an impact in your
career too but how do you you can't
really quantify that or provide advice
over that too except for like oh you
just got to be ready for whatever
opportunities kind of you fall into or
fall into your lap and whatnot
um but very cool I I you you were
talking about projects and getting
Hands-On and where that that's more of
your focus now and then I think that's
that's very true as like as you
specialize you go Niche you gain more
experience in whatever role you're in
you kind of
like certifications kind of like take
maybe like the back burner
um not as important as when they are
early on so can you can you talk about
like what's like the you remember being
like the first Cloud project you did
um and what are some things that you
feel like you want to work on now or
you've been working on now
um
so yeah this is probably not the very
first car project but one thought was
that really stood out to me that helped
me the most is probably uh because in
AWS all solutions Architects have to go
through something called the awesome
Builder program that's just something
where there's like three sets of
presentations you have to do the first
one is just around explaining to a
customer like the AWS messaging like
benefits of the cloud uh why AWS and
things like that the second one is like
drawing an architecture and then doing
like a whiteboarding session
um and then the third one is building a
proof of concept like a demo and then
showcasing that um so all three of them
is kind of like a fictitious uh company
and then you have like a panel of more
Senior Solutions Architects that can
kind of assess you and then yeah so once
we pass all three then we're kind of
like qualified to be able to actually
speak to customers because I was kind of
like done like standardized that like
you know you've you know the messaging
you know how to whiteboard and you know
how to build a proof of concept yeah I
think that one taught me the most
um you can get get to choose like
whatever build whatever but I chose to
build like a three team web application
you know um hosted with like ec2 RDS and
then just like linked a lot of the AWS
core Services together and then I think
that was time where I could just really
see how companies can just really
benefit from AWS
um I think yeah the points before where
a lot of it was theoretical but I'll
like build like half of something or
like but that was the first time I think
I built like a proper full application
um so yeah I think that was the most
defining one and I recommended that in
my recent video as well around yeah car
project beginners because I think yeah
that's one that I think everyone should
start with especially after getting
certifications that should be like a
good Next Step do you
so I know this is a very
like unique question for everyone and
everyone's going to have like you know
their own answer but do you feel like
there's a sweet spot for certifications
like at what point do you feel like all
right at this point it's time for you to
go in and build something or do
something outside of certs like do you
have a number in mind
um
done a lot of like mentoring calls if
people ask me this kind of just have a
question and then I always like like
work backwards from the job that they
want to become like let's say like
Associates architect
um if you work backwards of the job then
you have to think about what kind of
resume you'll need to have or like what
skills you need to have in the interview
and then work backwards and then go like
okay what certification should I get
what kind of projects should I get so
yeah it's very like Case by case and it
depends on like uh the like everyone
will give different like advice but I'll
recommend getting Cloud practitioner and
then starting your first car project and
then studying for the solutions Arctic
associate afterwards and then
um I think applying to the role you
don't have to apply after you've done
all three you can do it right after
getting the car practitioner because
for the resume I just recommend if
people are in the middle of studying for
it just put Solutions Arctic associate
and put brackets like in progress and
then okay chances are online an
interview you would have you know gotten
the knowledge and probably the
certification as well so that you can do
on the interview
um so yeah so it's I think overall two
sets Okay and then maybe one or two
power projects and I like the advice of
like take one
do go do something else build something
then take the next one and then you know
maybe maybe even you continue building
on that additional Pro that for initial
project but with the new things that
you've learned I have a I have a
colleague he created this project called
the Azure pet store and he built it
using all the services that he was
studying for the the Azure 204 the
developer certification so there's a lot
of like
um active directory there's like um
containers there's like container apps
uh there's like logic apps there's
there's like so many different things I
highly recommend it people go Google
Azure pet store and he has it all
documented he has individual steps of
how to implement it and he keeps it up
to date and as he learns new things it's
like his hero project and he also uses
that project to uh like speak at
conferences but also to explain he's a
he's a solution architect as well he
also uses that to explain to his
customers about like certain different
workflows different solutions and it's
like a bunch of things so I just the the
impact that that one project and setting
for that one certification has has been
like has brought him like so much more
and and in his career because of that
one well done project which I think have
you done the cloud resume challenge or
I'm sure you've heard of it but I'm not
sure if you've done it yeah I've come
across it a lot but I know there's uh I
haven't done it before but I know
there's Azure and AWS version right I
wonder if there's like a pet store AWS
pet store then someone needs to create
it because that sounds like creative
yeah get it get in touch with his name
is Chris the the author of the project
that would be an awesome
um yeah just like project experience for
anyone uh the AWS gcp uh or whatnot but
yeah there's there's
different Cloud resume projects but it's
also one of those projects that you
it'll you can like always add more to or
or try different types of things like
once you've built it out in one way and
it's originally asking you to work with
like a serverless database and a
serverless function but you can go and I
don't know replace the the serverless
function with something inside of a
container or uh maybe try a different
database technology it's like a bunch of
different things that you can sort of
make modifications off of it but it's
like one hero project so I can see
someone doing like you know and I think
actually Forrest who is the original
creator of the cloud resume challenge he
recommends doing fundamental
certification then the cloud resume
Challenge and then doing potentially
another certification after that
um so yeah and like also like maybe if
maybe your Niche is like Cloud security
maybe you put an emphasis on security
services in the types of projects or no
there's like a lot of potential out
there so anyway
coming back to to your sort of like your
Learning Journey
what are sort of like some resources
that you've used that you that you
recommend for the people to check out uh
this could be free this could be paid
any type of resource really
yep I could do some shout outs um the
ones that just taught me a lot um but I
just want to mention as well like I
think same with you when you were doing
the certifications a couple years ago
and you know when I did my
certifications two years ago there
weren't as many
um I think free roast resources and
things have like changed a lot since
then
um because like first one I would
definitely recommend to people now is
like especially for AWS courses
um is AWS skill Builder back then they
were just starting out with it there
were too many courses but AWS now they
even have like Hands-On labs they give
you like a Sandbox environment where you
can do tutorials and things and they
have like a six hour free course for a
car practitioner
um so I'll recommend AWS skill Builder
as just like the free resource for
everyone to use
um the ones that have personally helped
me is tutorials dojo for practice exams
um Neil Davis the fan Merrick I don't I
don't even know if people would be like
joining this stuff but you know like I
have them in my videos I have like yeah
you know certification videos and I talk
about each of them
um but yeah the ones I I tend to like
are the ones that are just really
concise and then have a lot of Hands-On
Vibes as well as well okay awesome I I'm
not an AWS person but I've heard Stefan
Merrick and uh what is this Adrian yeah
those two names I feel are just like
Staples when it comes to learning at AWS
I've even like again I've I've not
touched anything AWS in
let me see maybe oh no when I worked at
a cloud Guru never mind so that was just
two years ago
um or like a year and a half ago or
something like that but uh yeah those
are just names that I feel like I hear
them every single week people recommend
those so I'm sure I'm sure it's a great
great quality and whatnot so do you find
yourself
using
um
like documentation a lot too
for me or you mean like studying for
certifications or just in general yeah
and and when it comes to like trying to
build something
oh yeah for sure yeah documentation uh
because a lot of the courses
um even when they're just like tailored
towards building things you would need
to just write the documentation because
sometimes like things aren't updated or
like sometimes you want to make a trick
to your projects and things like that
documentation definitely helps and
definitely as a Solutions architect back
then as well like it that was I just
always had to rely on like documentation
because that just had the most
up-to-date information as well for
customers for My Cloud Learning Journey
not so much I relied a lot on video
courses but yes we both mentioned it
just
I think take all this advice like you
know for everyone watching take all this
advice with a gram of salt because yeah
some people that I've talked to they
really like ebooks and then they really
like just ready documentation white
papers for their study
um like sometimes people just can't take
in information if they're just like you
know listening it to work passively so
yeah definitely figure out which one is
right for you like what's kind of study
resource uh absolutely I whenever I tell
people this they always get surprised
but I cannot learn something watching
videos it does does it work I can't I I
but I think it's also because in my
day-to-day I don't really watch a lot of
video like I don't I'm not really one to
like watch Netflix or things like that
um or like consume video content but I I
have to read because like I'll read a
sentence and I'll have to like read it
like multiple times before I can fully
understand what's going on and with
video I find
trying to have that is difficult because
then you kind of like rewind rewind and
it's just like not as straightforward as
like readings something over and over
again
um so that's probably why it doesn't
work for me but but I remember at the
beginning I was getting so frustrated
because I remember Kali had recommended
a course and he's like check this out
you're gonna learn it was on um
there's this web technology called
Blazer which is to to create web
applications with net and he he was like
a senior software engineer like 25 plus
years developing in in.net and he's like
watch this course it's fantastic like
you'll learn like the basics and then
when I hand over this project like
you'll understand how to take it over
and I could not I just could not take it
I was getting extremely frustrated and
then a boss of mine in that same role
like said like why don't you try like
reading something out like I don't know
try something else maybe it's not it's
not you
and then once I did it's like was so
much easier for me to like intake that
information but
these are the sort of lessons that you
learn as you go as well um but big fan
of reading reading documentation
um and it now has more become sort of
like the first place that I go to uh
because a lot of people put in there's
entire teams dedicated to building
proper documentation uh and you know no
one really knows a product more in and
out than
like that well I mean it's supposed to
be the actual services that provide the
certain like the companies that create
the services
should have the best documentation it's
oftentimes not oftentimes but sometimes
they don't so maybe it's not the best
but I feel like it should become like a
like maybe a first step for most people
like hey just check that out first and
then kind of supplement with other
things or supplement your courses with
documentations because when you're in
like actually working
it's going to be a requirement you want
to be a requirement for sure uh there's
some questions herebecause a lot of people kind of look at
our videos as like a guide and then I
don't think I've mentioned documentation
too much but then I could be like you
know if you if you prefer reading or
like just understanding through like
what like yeah reading something then
maybe check out this resource instead
yeah because everything I think it's all
been video
yeah I I ca I can't which is funny
because I make like weekly videos so
people are like but like like that
doesn't make sense I'm like I don't know
it just it works it works that way for
me
um
Point them to the documentation yeah
yeah absolutely absolutely
um all right let's take a look here uh
let me see what do we got I'm currently
in high school and very interested in
cloud computing do I need experience to
take certifications is there do you know
if there's an age like a age do you have
to be to take a certification I don't
know like you don't have to be
I've seen on 18 like 14 years yeah like
14 year olds I think they're taking
certifications there might be some
guidance that you need like I'm just
randomly guessing but like some sort of
approval a parental approval Guardian
approval or something like that to take
the exam I'm not so sure but
um we have AWS Academy and AWS educate
which is programs and like self-paced
things just for high school students
that might be something to check out
I would also recommend
um like the student programs like for
example we have the student ambassador
program and
and the Google has the campus experts
I can't remember but there's a lot of
most large tech companies have
Ambassador Ambassador programs that are
specific for students that I highly take
it like highly well we both highly
recommend you you look into because
you get like resources sometimes you get
credit sometimes you get like mentorship
with people who work at the company swag
a bunch of cool things like that
um but yeah you don't you don't really
need experience like like like Lucy
mentioned like your first certification
was sort of just I want to learn some
cloud and
let's take the practitioner that's why I
love the practitioner level
certifications it's like it just opens
the opportunity for really anyone like
you don't immediately have to go to
associate level like you can you can
take a step back and start at the
practitioner level which is fantastic
and then you get people who maybe would
have never done it
um and you're like enabling them to to
study for cloud and those so I think
it's awesome wait here's the Canadian
ages 13 to 17 are permitted to take AWS
certification exams with the consent of
their parent or legal guarding okay so
you're spot on there with having needing
permission also you'll probably need
like a credit card which maybe some
students don't have so that might be
something else that you need to consider
yeah uh here we have another one
any advice on a scrum Master agile coach
wanting to Pivot into your field any
free search courses skills Etc so this
opens up another
question that I wanted to ask you
um mainly because this person said like
pivot into your field well just because
we're both in Cloud doesn't really mean
that we do like the same thing or or
like our upscaling or what we spend our
time like working on or working towards
day to day is going to be the same so do
you want to talk a little bit about what
the solution architect
role is like what would your day-to-day
and just just quickly answer this person
I would say before you try to Pivot into
the field have like a really good idea
what role you want to do and once you
have that role sort of reverse engineer
like Lucy was saying like go find like a
just like a role description that
matches the role you want to do get get
the description and kind of use that as
like a study guide and then you'll find
like what you need to upskill in but
yeah do you want to talk a little bit
more about what a solution architect
does at AWS
um and what your day-to-day kind of
looked like
yeah uh so Solutions Arctic I'll just
give my channel a pitch so we like to
call them at like you know trusted
technical advisors for customers as they
go along their Journey reducing the
cloud so that's what we call like how we
Define Solutions how we Define Solutions
Architects are AWS
um what we do day-to-day really varies
and depends on yeah there's a lot of
things and like the customers that you
work with but generally I could be
spending my time talking to customers to
understand like the situation on like
what they'd like to build on AWS
um what their Technical and business
requirements are and then after getting
those requirements I can then go back
and map out a solution for them so that
solution could be like an architectural
diagram it could be approval concept
let's just show them what it's actually
going to be like and then
um once they're happy to move on to the
cloud and just like happy to go forward
with using the service I would then
either direct them to the AWS
Professional Services team who do the
implementation or introduce them to our
partner or Partners so AWS has like a
large partner network with companies
like you know Deloitte essential iTalk
there's quite a few so depending on the
scale of the like you know
implementation or like what they want to
build and then I'll then work with you
know the sales team to find out like
what the next step is
um but Solutions Architects are quite
involved more in the early stages before
customers actually like want to actually
Implement and build it so you know we
don't really necessarily code like
things out for the customer
um we don't do things like you know
super detailed like troubleshooting for
them it's more like mapping out a
solution for them
um I think there's things I'm missing
about the solutions that I think well
there's just so much to cover about the
role I I would also say and you and I
were talking a little bit about this the
other day that a solution architect at
different companies will look
differently so if people are targeting
the role
um it's not sort of like this Universal
or generic sort of study guide or
perhaps like even like a solution
architect uh certification wouldn't
prepare you for a social architect role
at every single company because we
because you were you and I were talking
about how
um
like I
my potential next role would be a
solution architect and then you were
saying you were asking me like oh do you
still feel like that would be your your
thing and I was sort of giving me giving
my my Outlook on it
um but then that's when you and I
discovered like all social architect at
Microsoft uh can potentially be
different than like a solution architect
at AWS even at that scale so we have and
then there's solution Architects that
are at Microsoft that are sort of early
focusing on the that early phase uh very
similar to what you were mentioning and
then there are ones that are focused on
implementing and then I think you were
saying that those are more like Cloud
Architects at AWS
yeah I've done a bit of thinking like
just over the past few months I've
realized that I think Azure specialist
is kind of like our Cloud Solutions
Architects at AWS which is gcp's
customer Engineers
um that's like the correlation and then
like AWS Cloud Architects are Azure
Solutions Architects I think and then
who has like their Professional Services
Consultants as well so yeah like the
best way to just go about it is just to
like not really look at the role but
just the job description and have a look
at what
is then you can see like what role that
actually is yeah I also tell people who
are wanting to get into Cloud don't
focus on the fact that if cloud is in
the role or not in like the title like
that really doesn't matter as you grow
you spend more time you specialize your
Niche like your your role will become
more and more specific of course but
like 2022 tons of like um I've even seen
helped us grow sis admin roles
networking roles uh sock analyst roles
that have exposure to cloud and you
might be missing out on opportunities uh
because you're just so focused on it
having like clout in the role itself
um so yeah like don't don't don't limit
yourself
um it's like there's so much out there
and it could potentially also be
like progression like maybe you don't
immediately go into like a cloud
engineer role but you start at like sys
admin but you get a solid foundation in
sysadmin and then you take those skills
and you move into
uh like like a cloud role after that
like with you know a good foundation and
you've got like your year and it's also
easier to move up or move into having
like some sort of experience before
which is why I say like if you have like
one year of any type of of experience
it's always going to be better than
having nothing uh for people who are
trying to get into the field do you have
any other advice we're coming up here on
the hour and I want to answer as many
questions as we can but so do you have
any other like advice for people trying
to get into to the space I mean you have
tons of videos that's probably the best
advice people go watch Lucy's Channel
there's so much good content out there
you've talked about certifications
projects oh here's a good one
skills outside of technical skills you
feel people like should work on
the land role that's actually a new
video coming up um
yeah because everyone's always like you
know what I.T fundamentals should I
study what areas of clouds I need to
know uh but yeah I could talk about it
more specifically with Solutions arctics
like Studio because it is a customer
facing role which means that you need to
have customer facing uh skills
essentially like things like being able
to listen to customer requirements is
just really understand what the
customers are asking and what their
requirements are less so than just
pitching them a solution based off of
like your assumptions
um there's things like having empathy as
well just knowing like like when talking
to a customer
um I think stakeholder management as
well just not because you won't just be
working with customers you'll also be
working with the sales teams but
different people within the organization
like other Solutions Architects there's
just a whole bunch of those
interpersonal and soft skills are quite
important to develop as well
um aside from those technical skills one
thing I want to mention this actually I
haven't covered it in a video yet but I
think it's just something yeah that
would be good to talk about is that like
there are different Pathways into
becoming a Solutions architect
especially like these things because
um I think one way a way that like a lot
of people know about is you know
starting off with let's say like help
desk this admin you know Cloud engineer
and then Solutions Arctic but I think
the industry has really changed a lot
over the past couple of years in that
like especially in the past two years
they've introduced AWS themselves and I
think other companies will have
introduced the more associate level
roles and submissions Arctic internships
as well and that's just really like I
think it's just been like a big industry
shift because in the past like
submissions Arctic so people with like
many years of experience in it as a
software developer as a consultant and
then they want to kind of like take all
those years of learning to become a
Solutions architect right whereas a lot
of people you know straight out of
University or like you know straight off
like maybe studying like in a boot camp
or potentially just like self-taught
like you know studying for
certifications they can go straight into
this sort of role so I think just
getting people to just keeping the
options open is that like there are
multiple Pathways you can take now and
then that you can actually start up your
career as an associate Solutions
architect
awesome yeah there's no like one
template that you have to follow and
also the way that once someone went into
it doesn't necessarily mean it will work
or won't work for you but then that's
also the beauty of it and and that
should enable you to not feel frustrated
if something isn't like working for you
like maybe it might be your role your
journey is going to be completely
different and then you can later go on
and document and help someone else with
like your own uh yeah there's like
there's so many different ways to to get
into space I want to answer a few
questions just before we we tap out here
um you said boot camp someone did ask
opinions on boot camps uh what are your
views on cloud boot camps have you done
a video on this or is this topic that
you well you have an opinion on
I want to do a video on it
um but then I think I would need to do
more research because like I haven't you
know I haven't done a vocab myself and I
haven't looked too much into it but
recently I've been talking with a few
students who have done a boot camp and
they felt like you know they felt like
it was really helpful for them but then
I kind of want to compare that to like
you know that experience with like
versus if they were to do a
certification themselves like just
breaking down the things like the cost
that added benefit there's a whole bunch
of factors the community aspects because
I know there's pros and cons of each uh
but yeah I've got to do more research
into it and I think I want to do things
where I can like maybe conduct like a
like a quick interview with like people
who have been through some of those boot
camps and see like maybe there are ones
that you know like they do have like a
lower cost but they offer like the same
amount of value as like maybe like a ten
thousand dollar boot camp so yeah yeah a
lot of things out there but it's hard to
give any advice right now what about you
I think yeahI I have this reputation of going off
from rants on Stream So and I've done a
few on boot camps
um but I've also done a fair amount of
research because when I was sort of
getting wanting to get into the space
um so back
27 16 2017 uh boot camps was one of the
options that people were telling me
about and then I kept like like reading
like first of all a lot of them don't
have
like results like just like a lot of
testimonials and things like that so
that was kind of like shady to me
um but so then I went like the
self-taught route because I was like I'm
not I think the one I was looking at was
like 27 000 and I was broke when I tell
you that I had like I had like a
negative 200 in my bank account there's
no way I could afford this and I also
have didn't have like great credit which
credit is very important concept here in
the US
um
you know that's a whole different type
of live stream
um but I didn't I could I just couldn't
afford it so I went to self-taught route
and then like now I continue to look at
boot camps because it's like something
that people ask me questions about and I
still feel like if you you think of like
a six-month duration I really do feel
like if people put in the time to fully
understand how they learn best that they
most likely can teach themselves what a
boot camp will teach them because a lot
of people get out of the boot camps
still needing to put in several months
of just upskilling on how to interview
on how to speak to your own skill set on
uh building like credible projects
having well-documented projects
um just like a bunch of things that you
need for like land interviews tailoring
your resume tailoring your couple little
that some boot camps do cover some boot
camps don't so I just feel overall it's
like very hit or miss with that being
said it's still something that people
should research and people should look
into for themselves because I do
understand the structure of camp like
the guided learning is sometimes
something that people need or like
prefer so that's you know that's up to
them but I just personally think that
everyone is capable of learning on their
own
um and I don't know I just it's like a
lot of money it's just a lot of money
um
Fork out the money now like it just
doesn't seem worth it right like let
alone as a student like 27k for like a
boot camp that is a lot um yes that's
like a brand new car that is no that is
the down payment on a house
[Laughter]
um oh here's all right here I feel like
this is probably the best question to
end this on but what is your second
favorite Cloud role and why besides
architect
oh yeah this is something we were
talking about I was like my dream role
was always to go back into the tech
industry we'll probably be what you're
doing now develop an advocate role or
like Cloud Advocate uh I just I never
knew this role existed when I first
started out like even at AWS and it just
seems pretty cool in that like you get
to make videos get to speak at events
I'm sure there's you know there's a lot
of other things that are part of the
role
um but yeah like from what you've seen
as well like I think just you just get
to spend a larger percentage of time
doing this kind of fun stuff so I think
that'll be yeah quite a cool role to try
out um but yeah probably I would like to
like if I was to go back and take it I
should probably work overseas as well
um like Australia I just think that
sometimes a text saying is just not as
fast-paced
it's all the Summers and everything
happen in the US and then I want to be
where the cool stuff is do you have like
a a Dream City you would want to work
out of
Oh either New York or SF like you got a
company when if you got to come to New
York
I'll show you around all the good spots
all the good food
um oh that'll be good yeah
we do like an in-person live stream next
time yeah absolutely or maybe we'll do a
meet up or something like that
all right
um Lucy thank you so much for hanging
out I got to have you on hopefully maybe
the next time it'll be in person somehow
um but this was awesome uh very very
happy that we have people like you in
the space that are educating uh just
like you're such a nice person I think
that is so important like people take
that for granted but it is so important
to have a nice person to look to look up
to and I think that's very important
um yeah it's just also just
representation you know you being uh
such a like a strong figure in the cloud
space like uh you know you're a woman
like I just this is like so many awesome
things about you and I'm just so proud
of you as well
and so is everyone in that everyone in
the chat
yeah I realized I haven't been looking
at the comments right but I was like
quite a few people were asking questions
like being supportive so yeah hopefully
we'll get to do this again and yeah
um absolutely all right yeah
I thought it was like 20 minutes
all right I'm gonna say bye to everyone
in the chat and I will see you I don't
know if I'm gonna stream next Sunday
um I got a lot going on I gotta work on
a course but anyway see y'all