hi everyone welcome to another video in
the series where we are discussing how
to get a cloud job in my previous video
I had shared with you all this diagram
if you want access to this diagram by
the way let me know if there's enough
interest I will some
how find a way to share it
with you all however it does take a lot
of work so I don't know if giving it
away for free
fair but we'll see but anyway I shared
this journey or this timeline where
ultimately I can see someone going from
prereqs so you've worked some sort of
other role prior
and you have either a degree you've
attended a boot camp you have some sort
of other technical work experience
though that's kind of an exception
because you would skip this phase and go
straight to applying to your Cloud role
or you have an entry level Tech role in
the self-taught framework which is for
me two search two projects in one year
entry level experience and then you can
go from that to a cloud exposure role
and then a cloud job in anywhere from
two years to four years
in time I think it's very realistic very
possibleand I found there was a lot of interest
in understanding a little bit more about
this this role this phase here Cloud
exposure what that looks like so it
looks like a lot of people either have
some sort of degree have attended a boot
camp have some sort of other uh sort of
like you're in an entry-level role and
you're self-teaching like how do you go
from that and you you take the next step
into your into your potential Cloud job
something like Cloud engineering Cloud
developer devops engineer so today we
are going to talk about that
um hi my name is GPS I do Cloud things
at Microsoft and here on YouTube
please give this video a like hit the
Subscribe button leave a comment it
really does help not only in metrics but
also just it's encourage it's
encouraging to know you all like the
concept and welcome to new video alright
so
back into this Cloud exposure phase here
again I think you can potentially spend
a year to two years to just probably
pushing it a year to year and a half
your solid your gold that coupled with
your past year to two years of
experience I'm pretty sure you're you're
in terms of skill set and experience
you're not lacking it's more so if
you're getting rejected it's probably
resume
interviewing skills not knowing not
networking enough something like that
but yeah Cloud exposure but what I mean
by Cloud exposure is it's your stepping
Zone it's these roles that don't
necessarily have
cloud in them though I haven't included
here a column that are essentially roles
that have cloud like Cloud developer
Junior Cloud developer Junior devops
engineer Junior site reliability
engineer Junior data engineer your Cloud
admin Junior Cloud security analyst
Junior Cloud solution architect
and these a lot of these have Cloud on
them and these are essentially the
junior levels to the roles that you want
to end up going to I think you are in
your in your right mind to go and apply
with uh to these roles here we'll talk
about this column in a second to these
rule because
you know if you're doing the the
self-taught framework you've got two
search two projects one entry-level year
of experience and most importantly
you've learned CLI a programming
language Cloud platform and devops on
mentals
so you have the skill sets you you have
the skill set it's more so this time
tailoring your resume being able to
speak about your projects and applying
applying applying applying applying
probably facing a lot of rejection which
is why I include the cloud exposure
phase instead of going straight from
Once completing prereqs straight to
Cloud
cloud cloud job but you have the
stepping Zone here
but I say 100 go for them as you apply
for these roles go and apply for these
rules too because like I mentioned the
formula to Landing a role is 100 it's 50
you're what you're in charge of your
your projects your skill set all those
types of things and then 50 luck and one
day there could be just 50 luck
available if you got 50 there's 50 luck
available right place right time
opportunity boom 100 you you find
yourself in your Junior devops engineer
role or something like that so go for
these right 100 go for these now on the
left side are more perhaps a little bit
more realistic when when luck is running
on the low
and these are junior solution architect
Cloud migration Specialists Cloud sales
representative Cloud technical writer
Cloud customer success manager cloud
training specialist and Cloud support
specialist
I got these by asking chat gbt a bunch
of questions in terms of like what are
the most popular roles out there that
don't necessarily aren't necessarily
Cloud engineering roles but will give me
exposure to cloud computing Technologies
and it gave me these here
and I think they're actually pretty good
so we're going to talk about these one
by one I actually might group some of
these so let's start first with
the junior solution architect and the
cloud sales representative because these
are very
sales based and focused roles
and you could potentially make full-on
careers
by being in these Cloud exposure roles I
think one thing I I've seen people sort
of get confused about is I see people
who have a background perhaps business
or in sales they're very charismatic
they love having that sales type
interaction with people and they think
that
there's no place for that in cloud
computing but tech technical sales
solution architect type roles which you
you know your commission based so you
dip your your salary will depend on your
commission can be very very lucrative I
have spoken to many many people at
Microsoft who have these types of roles
and the commissions that they make are
insane now remember there's one very
specific interaction with someone I met
last summer we were at like a happy hour
thing and I was just like oh my goodness
I am in the wrong field so if you're
someone with a sales or business
background there's pla there are plenty
of two opportunities here but
I will also say that maybe you you
find yourself applying to these roles
but you don't want to end up being this
for
like the next couple of years or
whatever your end goal role is
don't think that the experience that you
gain here won't be something that you
can apply to your next role absolutely
because solution Architects sales uh
sales representatives you have to know
the product that you're selling
obviously you have to be able to speak
to it and you have to be able to speak
to it in a way that is
friendly to people who are perhaps
non-technical
which in my opinion is a skill set that
you will use for the rest of your life
and something that gets developed in
like the the earlier you develop it the
better you'll be and there's also
another reason why I highly recommend
support role as People's First roles
because you develop people skills your
communication skills there and that's
something that you will take to the rest
of your career right so yeah you you
have to be able to speak to what you're
you're selling you can't just be like oh
you should purchase this cloud service
and they're going to ask well what about
this other one then you're like oh I
don't know like and they ask you what
are the difference and you're like oh I
don't know you can't do that right so
sales types sales based rules great ones
for cloud exposure
then Cloud migration special I should
have grouped these actually you know
what we're going to group these right
now we're going to do this because this
is going to make a little bit more sense
here if we group this this here and then
this and then this and then this and
then we put these
so we'll
put these together
and then we can make a little bit more
sense of what all these mean because you
develop sort of different skill sets but
all very very very very applicable to
that next step so we're going to call
these sales based
sales based
this is way too too large okay and we'll
just make this another color here sales
based
then we're gonna do content based
and then here we're gonna put these
support based
okay
see I I continue improving this diagram
all the time whoops we're gonna move
this slower here over here
and we could probably make these just a
little
other very pretty small Okay cool so we
talked about the sales based ones
now let's talk about let's talk about
the content-based ones first
so I totally forgot that my previous
role I don't know why is content based I
actually worked at a cloud Guru before
working at Microsoft so after I left my
my cloud engineering role
I worked at a cloud Guru and I was an
associate Community trading architect my
goal was to essentially create content
around the things that I had learned in
my previous roles as a cloud engineer as
as admin in my help desk scroll and it
was very lucrative in my opinion I was
making 92
000 USD
92 that's a very very close to six
figures that's the most amount of money
that I ever thought I would make and
actually the one before that when I made
75 000 USD that was the most amount of
money I ever thought I made but then you
know I I made this jump to 92k and I was
like I had no idea that content-based
rules could be so lucrative and it makes
sense because
you know all these professionals who are
working in Tech they need to learn
somehow
and
if you are good at teaching if you have
a background maybe you are a teacher now
maybe you're a tutor maybe you like
teaching maybe you've done some training
type work and you know you know how
difficult it is to teach however if
that's a skill set that you want to
leverage and you can also make this a
very lucrative career like again if you
don't want to go Cloud engineer you
don't want to go devops engineer but you
think that's your only path I'm here to
tell you no you can leverage your skill
set with your teaching skill set to go
and be in a cloud technical writer where
you're creating documentation you're
creating support articles for some sort
of cloud based service or Cloud platform
you can be a cloud training specialist
teach other people things like
certification content or Labs or like a
bunch of other things like that too and
you're also
it's a role where you're going to be
teaching yourself a lot and very well
because you're going to go and have to
teach the content in order for your your
room
your content to be or your platform that
you teach on to be rated very well like
you have to have a good approach a good
teaching approach right
so technical writer cloud training
specialist you get Hands-On with all
these Services because again maybe you
have to create demos or you have to
create uh screen recordings or something
like that but also great great rules for
cloud exposure and again like I
mentioned very lucrative and clubs like
support based so when we think of help
that support at that prereq level this
is very similar to that where you're
focusing on ticketing systems you're
focusing on documentation
troubleshooting and then you're also
focused on what's the uh ticketing
systems documentation troubleshooting
and how did I I always forget these
uh people skills people skills because
you're talking obviously you're
resolving people's skills by talking
with them right you're resolving
people's issues by talking with them but
this is in the context of cloud so I put
here Cloud migration Specialists Cloud
customer success manager and Cloud
support specialist
now these you are
you're potentially working at like these
large companies like Accenture
or what's the other one I think it's
Deloitte where they have just thousands
and thousands of people in teams
like put into teams are you working with
other external customers perhaps you're
you're helping them like for example
Cloud migration Specialists you might
have a little bit more of uh a sales
sales Focus not necessarily sales Focus
but initial phone call Focus
where you're put on to figure out like
some Basics about what's going to happen
in the project what needs to happen in
the project and then it's passed on to
someone more senior Cloud customer
success manager you might be on a
company that has some sort of
cloud-based product and your job is to
work with customers with whatever issue
they're having or you're a cloud support
specialist you are again
resolving issues that customers are
having with your Cloud product right
again it's support based but you're
getting Hands-On with whatever that
cloud product is because you you have to
get Hands-On in order to fix whatever
issue people are having so support based
so these are three areas that I feel
like can give you a lot a lot of
exposure and to moving into your Cloud
role again a year to two years into this
I obviously you're building stuff you
could potentially take it to the next
step with the self-taught framework and
get like a professional level
certification or another complimentary
certification and ideally you would
build another project or improve the
project that you built in this space
here and you're writing about it you're
talking about it and you're improving
your time here a year to two years and
then go apply to your Cloud job Cloud
engineer Cloud developer devops SRE
security whatever it is that you want to
do the last thing I wanted to add is in
the previous video we talked about
entering skills resume cover letter and
Linkedin but I added here under the
additional things to better chances at
all stages which is participate in
communities and outside of already
creating your content and learning in
public if you can give talks that's
awesome I've gone on any topic that you
want to there are tons of meetups out
there that you can attend and you can
also give talks at and maybe you could
potentially organize one I think that's
awesome too
contribute to open source if you want to
contribute to learn a cloud what you can
do is you know go to learn to
cloud.guide and here at our home page
what we do is display a random Cloud
definition that was submitted by people
in the community
for example Jenkins this is an article
to learn more about Jenkins here's the
definition this person has submitted and
a summon is the author of this
definition here and here this actually
links to whatever link you want to add
there you can submit a definition
definition by hitting submit a
definition click on submit a cloud to
finish and get started and then you need
to provide fill in this Json with your
word I personally go one by one and sort
of Coach people through or if if they
don't need any help then they just
submit it and then I
uh you know approve the the submission
but those are ways that you can
contribute to open source there you can
also fix or improve the documentation
that you see out there that's open
source perhaps there are other first
contributor friendly issues out there
that you can find on on GitHub or an
open source in general highly recommend
you participate in that and put yourself
out there get to get to know people
participating in panels in in just other
events I think is a great idea
I always like to tell the story of my I
applied to Microsoft three times the
first time I was directed automatically
the second time as well and the third
time I had two referrals and I also
happened to know the hiring manager but
I didn't know that I knew the hiring
manager what happened was I was part of
the Microsoft MVP program which I highly
recommend people look into an ambassador
type programs GitHub has them Microsoft
has them AWS has them it just improves
your way of networking and meeting other
people who work at these companies that
you may want to end up working at so as
part of that program and I was asked to
be on this panel and it was a couple of
months before I ended up applying for
the third time to Microsoft
and I one of the people on that panel
ended up being the hiring manager so
when I applied to the role and the
person who referred me told me all the
hiring manager's name is this I was like
that sounds so familiar I look back at
the invitation to that panel and saw
that this person's name was on there I
was like this is so amazing what a
coincidence but also like I mentioned
Landing a role 100 50 in your control 50
luck and this happened to be just that
lock percentage for me just happened to
be up here
so when we had our initial conversation
on the role
they were they were clearly like oh
we've we've spoken before we yeah we
were on that event so there was instant
Rapport there because he had already
known why it was and it was all because
I decided to participate in this panel
well I got an invitation of course but I
had been out there public publicly and
people had known my name and they were
like oh yeah I think she would be great
for this and it worked out to my favor
right put yourself out there again
remember the rules they'll be fake
they'll be annoying don't let it consume
you but leverage it learn how to
leverage these types of things all right
that's it for this video another long
one but I hope I provide a little bit
more insight into what I mean by Cloud
exposure type roles if there are any
kind of areas of this journey you want
me to cover uh perhaps you want to learn
a little bit more about like oh you're
not even cover the prereqs like you're
working in a different field how to go
through that prereq phase let me know or
I don't know any kind of topic around
this
um yeah I will see you in the next video
peace