I'm gonna go back here pull this up here
let me refresh my YouTubedamn we got nine people waitingall right I did a command like a custom
command for your stuff
um it's like exclamation day so let me
see if it actually works yeah there we
go and then people can get all your
links I grabbed your like your solo dot
two
from your Twitter that and it looked
like that had everything in it so
yeah yeah so we got people coming in so
what up everyone
uh welcome settle in settle in they and
I were already talking but then we we're
like oh we gotta go live so we hit live
I'm trying something a little different
I'm using collab cam on streamlabs I
don't know if you've heard about it Dave
it's like this new feature that
streamlabs came up with and hopefully it
doesn't like bug out on us in the middle
of the stream yeah but we're here to
talk all things
cyber security Cloud work
social media YouTube monk mode all these
kinds of things I we haven't really
spoken since
when it was it you were in here in New
York like July ish no August no Julyokay around that time yeah around that
time and then we talked a little bit
after you did the learn to Cloud stuff
which was
like a couple weeks after that
yeah yeah yeah and then
we've been like I don't know I I always
reply to your Instagram stories and your
reels because I think you're one of the
realest person everyone is the realest
people in the game
um which is cool and whatnot but yeah
people come in uh we're here to talk
where should we start manfrom the beginning
like what like okay let me start by like
the craziest thing you're are you 21 yetyeah so you can't you still can't drink
illegally you still can't drink for all
legal intents and purposes
um
he is uh hold on let me check the volume
it says can't hear Dave via YouTube Let
me see
you're coming in here good
uh let me see
ah we don't have audio for day let me
see let me see oh hold on let's do this
all right how about now can you say
something oh check check can you guys
hear me
yeah I think they can hear you now
uh yeah yeah I think I had to configure
your
you're just about you okay all right
good get in my bed
um
what what was I gonna say oh yeah so
you're still you still legally can't
have a drink with me
I remember like when you were in New
York I was like yo let's go get a drink
and you're like I'm 20.
no I'm still 20.
um till uh February of next year are you
gonna have a big big party
honestly I don't think so it's not your
vibe I don't really like parties
um I'm just I don't know what I'm gonna
do yet
um
I don't know last this year I went to
like I did a getaway I just like went to
like the woods for like two days by
yourself yeah that's how you celebrate
yeah that was no that was literally
that's really what I did and I was just
like chilling there alone
um I don't know I don't I really don't
know how to like celebrate like stuff
like birthdays or like things in general
so I feel you I just tend to like just
you know do it alone or just like I
don't know do something random so I
honestly don't know yet I feel like my
maybe like my my friends or my family
might try to like do something so we'll
see 21 is a big uh
a big a big age I feel I feel like it's
one of the last
ages that you want to celebrate actually
I do agree because after that what 30
and then you know it's all downhillI do think like for me like I do things
like 25 is going to be a big milestone
age for me because I have a lot of
things that I've been working towards at
25 from like when I was 19 like when I
was like 19
before I turned 19. before I turned 20
like I have I have this board where I
have things that I want to get to by 25
So like
um and they started from like you know
being 20 So like
um I think that's going to be a big
milestone age because like I'm gonna
look back and like really be able to
like point back to those things that I
you know I'm working towards because
like
I'm I've not I've not reached my final
form yet oh definitely not with like
with the amount of things that you do
and we'll get into this I just and
already what you've accomplished so
you're 20. uh what's your official title
at datadog I am a detection engineer
that's what my title is detection
engineer at datadog you're still in
school
and you're also in like like a teacher
right I don't know what your official
title is yes it's a cyber security tutor
cyber security tutor at a like local
College yeah at a community college
Community College you're also a YouTuber
and you're also killing it on Instagram
with the reels and whatnot and you're I
don't know there's overall it's like
like a fantastic person and we met back
in the summer and then I was just so
like floored by how much you've
accomplished
by 20.
like and you had yeah because I was back
in the summer so it technically just
have turned 21 up but I wanna I wanna
talk to you a little bit about first
certification so we can dive into other
things later but certifications first
you and I both I feel have like a love
hate an interesting relationship with
certifications and I want to ask you
because a lot of your your reels are
like in like short form content is
centered around certifications and sort
of how you feel about them so yeah give
give the people like an overview of
course like what certs do you have which
ones are actually useful and are you
working towards any any certifications
in the context of like Cloud security
um okay there's a there's a lot to
unpack there yeah I know because because
like certifications are
very controversial
um I don't think they need to be I just
think like they're either oversimplified
or over complicated yeah um so
um I was I was in a like a podcast with
like another
um uh content creator like a while back
and we're talking about certifications
and he asked me like what has been the
most important certification you've
taken
um in your career so far and I there was
this particular one I you know talked
about but I I the main thing I wanted to
say was that
I don't think any of them was
particularly important okay like at the
time that I took the certifications they
made sense for that time and they were
good for that time right it was like at
that point in time where I had this
certification I took the certification
it was
um it was needed I needed to take that
certification at that time yeah right
now I have about 12 13 certifications
that are active
um and each of them had a purpose um
which I took them yeah so I initially
started as someone who was getting into
the industry and like I didn't really
know much and I didn't have much
experience or skill so I needed
something to like push my credentials
right okay and this is someone this is
like as a college freshman right I'm
still trying to figure out stuff so of
course like when it comes to it like the
Holy Grail of like entry level
certification wait wait wait hold up let
me pause it you said College freshmen so
you mean like last year
um two years ago two years ago
two years ago a long long time ago two
years ago all right all right cool
continue yeah this was uh this was 2020.all right all right all right so
um come to like you know Holy Grail of
like entry-level certifications come to
your a plus right
yeah that's the one that's gonna change
your life that's the six figure one
right there no it was it was it and like
the way it did it in a really really
interesting way because I failed it the
first time it was my first ever
certification and I failed it the first
time right and like I was like I was
like it like that really like I was down
by that like I was like dang I literally
paid like you know like 300 for two
exams and I failed both of those two
exams right yeah so like I was like
really devastated I was like you know
because I was just getting into the into
the industry I was like I can't pass
this exam right but like that's the exam
everyone talks about like if you go on
Reddit like the a plus yeah the a plus
like when you if you want to get to it
okay yeah like literally everyone says
go get the A Plus at least at least you
know looking back two years three years
ago right that's so that was the Holy
Grail of like if you want to get to I.T
Network and cyber security whatever it
is go get the a plus all right
um and then do the countier trifecta a
plus number plus Security Plus okay so
um I was like you know I'm gonna start
from the A Plus and I was also looking
for like a help desk job or like an I.T
technician job and I felt like it would
you know help me with that so to help
desk girl
because I didn't have
any specific skills or anything you're a
freshman at WGU at this point or is this
another another school no so I was a
freshman at the school I currently tutor
out right now oh
um yeah so WG wasn't until last year
okay okay cool cool all right cool
so you know but I you know after my
second uh attempt I passed the exam and
then it was just like like that like the
experience of like just like passing the
exam like really taught me a lot so like
that was really when I started like this
like journey of like just being a a word
I just recently learned about a Didact
so like you know learning on your own
self teaching yourself stuff yeah
exactly that self-taught uh Journey yeah
um and um I that was like you know the
beginning of like you know constant
studying you know like self-improvement
both in like you know career and like
life in general so yeah this was a
period also when I was like you know
really just like cutting out of
different things like
um you know video games social media
friends all about that right you know
maybe we can talk about more about that
later on but um so a plus um and then I
started studying for the number plus and
this period I was applying for like a
bunch of internships um entry level
positions uh help desk positions and I
got the opportunity for my first cyber
security internship
um after like various field um
internships and attempts and stuff like
that
um so I got that job and right before I
got the offer for the internship I
passed my number plus so like a couple
of weeks before I was gonna start I
passed Network plus um and that really
helped me with like learning networking
for them tools and all that okay and
then first day of my internship
um the security Engineers shadowing was
like Hey take the security textbook
Security Plus textbook study it it will
really help you with this internship
like help you understand what you're
doing here and really security stuff so
I took the book ready cover to cover
took a bunch of udemy courses passed
that so that was like the whole journey
for how long did that one take you
um security so I passed never Plus in
September
um of 2020 and I passed the Security
Plus in November so it took me about
two months ish to pass the Security Plus
was there any overlap or completely
different content so if you go the a
plus nerd plus Security Plus route there
is a lot of like overlap across each
three so it's like okay number plus
boots on the a plus and the Security
Plus Builds on the never plus and the a
plus okay so like they and also like
once you've done that many computer
exams you kind of have to understanding
of what you're looking for or what
you're looking for okay in their exams
so that was kind of like the journey and
then afterwards my next uh certification
was the
um I'm actually looking at my LinkedIn
right now it was the Splunk course
certified user
um that one was because
I was learning Splunk on my own I was
building labs and stuff like that and we
talked about Labs later on
um but I was you know work I was
building one of labs of my own with
Splunk and learning about Splunk and
stuff like that and I was like I want to
work in a company that uses Splunk right
because like that's like kind of like
the de facto Sim
um in the cyber security industry at
least at that time
um so I you know went ahead and got the
certification
um and then fortunately around that
period I interviewed for
um my the threat analyst position my
last job yeah um and um got the position
and I started working with Splunk was
that in are they sort of internship or
full-time role
uh that was a full-time role my
internship was like
that was like uh my internship ended
March of last year
um and then I had an I then immediately
after that my first full-time role
started March of what of that much of
that same year yeah but it was a
different job so that was I was a suck
analyst in that role I worked there for
about three months before I got my last
job as a threat analyst
so
um okay um so right before I started my
last job I was three analyst um I failed
the cyc plus from CompTIA
um I I quite frankly wasn't ready I
would say the exam is a beast of an exam
okay
um and um I failed it um but I took it
again past then
um August of 2021 which was last year I
got the AWS Cloud practitioner this is
part of a wgu's
um
shout out to WGU yeah uh that was part
of the network operations and security
program and that um also kind of a
little bit um picked my interest in
Cloud a lot more than I had had in Cloud
um also I took the Azure fundamentals
this was May 2021
um and then I took the ITIL
certification in August 2021 took the
Linux Essentials I know that that
certification has a special place heck
yeah I love that love that so yeah that
was also part of the WGU program as well
yeah then
um this year I have taken three
certifications the first one was in
February of this year um that was The
Blue Team level one total Beast of an
exam one of the best certifications is
that the 24-hour one yes yes that was
like that that one is like there's a
level two I'm considering taking it that
was like a 72 hour one a lot more
advanced
um but I don't know where I'm gonna take
that one
um and then I took another one the
offensive Azure one that was also 24
hours that was also that's also like a
newer certification like Azure pen
testing um definitely valuable enjoyed
that one as well and recently just took
the come to your project boss um because
I had to take it for WGU yeah for my
program so I I did not enjoy that
certification at all like it it it did a
lot to me like mentally
um but I've got I I cut out of it but
yeah that's kind of my entire
certification Journey with timestamps
all right we we got sort of the context
of the certifications you got now I'm
gonna ask you some tough questions first
of all
do you think you'd be where you're at
without any certificationno okay okay no no
um I think
so I I don't think I would be wearing my
without those certifications because
they thought they they taught me how to
learn on my own
um and I think that is a lot more
valuable than the actual certification
itself
all right like because like I didn't
like I didn't have like any like you
know I didn't go to any you know
bootcamp or instructor or like you know
anything I've pretty much touched my
taught myself all of this stuff so like
the ability to like you know go out
there and just like learn something on
my own
um has been a lot more valuable than the
certifications themselves yeah um but I
wouldn't say like I could have done it
differently
um but no okay I wouldn't all right yeah
so going back to that Trifecta right A
Plus Security Plus network plus to where
you're at now if you could if you could
only you go back and take just one which
one B would be the most useful for you
um let's contagious one yeah
I would saythe most useful the number plus to be
honest I think it's like the web balance
between the a plus and Security Plus
okay Security Plus I could learn
the security plus stuff from a lot more
other things like labs and like books
um like I could definitely learn that I
could have just read the security plus
book like a couple of times and a bunch
of other security books
um you know done a bunch of labs and I
would you know pick up all of those
Concepts over time
um and also with my experience like I
could have gotten those things but like
a plus
um I don't think it was as necessary
yeah um but still valuable
um I mean to me you know at that time
and then Network plus was like the
really good balance between the both
like I taught you some a level of
security stuff but the networking stuff
you learn from Network plus is also
really valuable because like you just
can't trade that you know like the the
networking stuff just always comes back
right yeah you always have to like you
always have to you know know like you
know IP address and you have to know
your DNS you have to know like your
routing and stuff like that like somehow
it comes back and like if you are Gonna
Go Far in your cyber security career or
you know um even like a technical career
in general you have to kind of stuff
like the different protocols like
understanding like the you know OSI
stack even if it's like deprecated or
whatever but like really understanding
that stuff like at each level is really
important and like it's still I still
use it to this day especially cyber
security because like each layer of that
um you know stack has different attacks
um associated with them so like when
you're analyzing logs or analyzing
different activities and stuff like that
like it's it's it's very valuable just
having like that framework or that
Concept in your head um and also just
the knowledge so I would say the network
plus
um definitely and in hindsight I wish I
had to spend more time on it but I did
have a really strong networking uh
background from like some of my classes
and you know that definitely helped me
yeah no I feel you the
I
when I was applying to help those gigs I
saw a lot of like a plus as like
requirements and I was just like I'm not
taking this exam because I was like a
very cocky and arrogant 20 like 20 year
old like 19 20 year old maybe 21-ish at
that time and I'm like because I was
reading through the content and I'm like
this thing is like this is a mouse and
I'm like why would I need to spend
months and like this much and I was also
broke I didn't want to spend 300 on exam
so I'm like I'm just not gonna take this
but I was I was technically Savvy and
then I also had like like the Apple
Store job kind of experience so I knew
how to like take
um tickets and whatnot so I landed like
interviews and whatnot and they were
like yeah whatever like we I feel like
they use that a lot as like to filter
out people
um and to filter out resumes and whatnot
but I would still say like even if you
don't have a plus like go and apply to
these roles because if you I mean if you
know the stuff if you don't then
obviously go and learn it and then a
plus could be a potentially good way of
learning it but yeah I I yeah I remember
I bought that book The a plus book and
it was like freaking so thick
all right oh my goodness I don't even
want to like do this so luckily it
worked out for me but yeah I do also
think that um sometimes like the
pressure of the exam makes you lose out
on like learning
um and I think you can really relate to
this um from like the Linux Essentials
like you really spend a lot of time
studying like the Linux Concepts and you
still hold a lot of them like you still
use them on a daily basis but like when
there's like a pressure I have to take
an exam and pass the exam yeah from what
I'm learning sometimes you tend to like
limit your self you tend to like rather
you you tend to sacrifice long-term
knowledge for like a short term like
okay I'll I'll I'll just remember this
for the exam right and then like you
know you lose that you know in the long
the long run so something I do advise
people these days is like just like do
the course or like just you know read
the book and like learn the concepts and
you don't necessarily have to take exam
like just know it for the sake of
knowing it
I I like what you said at the beginning
where like certifications are either
over hyped or undervalued and I think
the overhype part comes a lot from like
Tech influencers
and we I don't want to get too ranty on
it because you and I have spoken about
this but it's like you know you see so
much content of like top 10 paying
certifications and it's like you know
having been on YouTube you kind of get a
feel for how these people are and it's
like they they don't even work in Tech
or like oh how like you need this
certification roadmap but like that they
themselves didn't go through that to
like actually get a job and whatnot and
then there's the other people were like
certs have absolutely no ballet so when
you did your when you did your reel of
like
oh do you need search or projects and
you were like you need both that like
that balance is kind of like what I want
to ask you next is
say I'm like I don't say I got like a
level like a year of help desk
experience right and I'm trying to like
upscale in security because that's what
I I want to get into what two
certifications would you recommend I go
and study for and like take my time uh
to really like learn what I have to
learn to get like an entry-level
security role or a role that has some
sort of aspect of security in it
um so I would say that so I would assume
right from the help desk like you're
familiar with like some sort of
networking
um you know some sort of like
um I.T stuff right I'm pretty sure maybe
like you're working with active
directory all the time so like you're
probably like you know pretty decent at
some things here and there right so like
at that point I would I would point you
to two certifications
um two of which are not necessarily like
industry standard um in terms of like
you know if you're looking for a job or
whatever but I think these two are like
the Holy Grail of like you know you'll
it opens you up to limited options right
because I was gonna say it depends on
like you know what kind of security rule
you want to get into which is sometimes
hard to make a decision on yeah but
um so these two are actually on two
opposing ends so in security would
typically look at things sometimes from
like the defensive side and the
offensive side so defensive side is like
you know people who are monitoring the
networks detecting different activities
you would consider you consider me as a
detection engineer on a defensive side
the offensive side are like people who
are trying to emulate like you know
actual attacker activity you know pen
testers you know and ethical hackers and
things of s word so
um the two certifications I recommend on
that being said is
uh the Practical Network penetration
tester from the from TCM security
um
and The Blue Team level one from
security blue team yeah like which is
one I've taken myself
um the reasons behind this is because
Bluetooth level one is practical there's
no multiple choice
um I know the exam is different but it's
actually a practical exam you're thrown
into a compromised environment and
you're asked to investigate you know the
malicious activity that has happened in
this environment
um and create a report from that
activity so that's you know first reason
why because like it's practical and they
give you the you know resources you need
to
um
oh I think Morgan
okay all right thank you for the
resources to
um everything everything you need is no
resources right now and with the price
right so it's about 500
um but you don't you don't need like
there's you don't have to go out there
to like source for extra resources right
yeah so it's like you pay 500 for four
months of access to the material they
teach you everything and you're and then
you do the Practical exam okay um and
this is on the defensive side and you
learn a lot like that exam is like a lot
of new organizations now that are like
hiring like security analysts entry
level analysts they're making
requirements for those people or they
make their analysts take that training
as part of like their onboarding where
they start so it gives you you know
knowledge on that side
then the other one is the Practical
Network pen tester from TCM security
that was around like I believe like
around two or three hundred dollars
depending on like what package you pay
for which is very affordable in terms of
like certifications and what you get out
of that that one gives you Insight from
the
um uh from the offensive side and what
these two have in common is you're
dealing with Windows or active directory
on both ends one way or another so on
the pmpt side you're you know you're
compromising the active directory
environment
um and you know uh creating a report on
you know how you did that on the TCM on
the Bluetooth level one side you're
investigating an activity against like
you know what sort of active directory
environment but not necessarily an
active directory environment but there's
there are windows environment there are
windows devices in the environment so
you have to do you know that as well so
having knowledge on these two ends makes
you a
RockStar at least at the entry level if
you have like that Knowledge from both
ends because like a lot goes into
learning the material and doing the exam
and passing the exam but if you have
both I am very certain that if you go
into any Fair interview as an
entry-level stock analyst I don't know
about pen tester but for as an entry
level stock analyst you would be able to
answer a lot of the questions that
they're going to ask you and actually
succeed at the role at the entry level
because you have the understanding of
like what you're most likely going to be
doing as an analyst so those are my
recommendations so
can if if you study for those two
certifications
and I'm just gonna tell people like
these aren't things that you can
memorize this and this is what I love
about the security space it's like
certifications actually test your
knowledge and the CL and which is why
they're valued more than how
certifications are valued in the cloud
space and the cloud space you can
memorize everything and that's why you
see people on LinkedIn sharing like
iPass certifications every single week
it's like yeah because they're not hard
like you can go and like buy like the
packet of like
um the questions for like 20 off some
website and then you memorize everything
and then you go and pass like it doesn't
really prove but in the security space
like these are Labs these are things
that you actually have to do you
actually have to Showcase your knowledge
so this isn't something that you can
spend a couple of weeks on like I mean
unless you spend like all every day all
day studying for them but it's going to
take a good amount of time so do you
think with like those two shirts taking
a lot of time but without any technical
experience someone can go and land like
a sock analyst role
yes because those two certifications
come with training that gets you up to
speed right so like this is not these
they're they're targeted at entry-level
people right for The Blue Team level one
it explicitly States on their website
and actually even did a video about this
recently that it's targeted for students
I.T personal you know very entry-level
people right so like all the content you
need is on there and they're like
supplementary Labs you can do so this is
even if you gain all the knowledge from
like the material they they're extra
Labs like they point you to that you can
do to enhance your knowledge you're not
just doing like the
um you know the course material there's
extra Labs you do to practice and
actually you know prove your skills yeah
um or um build on those skills you're
learning in the actual course so yes you
think people can land it all right all
right people so that's yeah I I'll Stand
to that like good news anytime I like
that because I mean so usually what I I
tell people to get in cloud is like
you're gonna spend six months kind of
like you know work support and then
spend six months kind of upscaling these
areas that I usually recommend and then
with that I feel like you could go and
land a cloud role essentially the amount
of time that people would take to study
for these classes these security
certifications would be somewhat similar
um and you can go and like land these
these entry-level security rules so I
like that it sounds like people also
need to kind of figure out what they're
aiming for like what roles they're
aiming for becausepeople are like I want to get into Cloud
security but from what I've learned from
you it's like well what does that mean
like there's so many different like
spaces like security is just essentially
just like saying Cloud now because you
can secure so many different things so
it sounds like people need to be able to
First do research on like what role and
security they want to get into but do
you think no matter what role like a
good like kind of like get into the
space it's just two these two certs and
then go sock analysts and then kind of
figure out what Niche you want to go
into
yeah I do think like
um you know like stock analyst
um which is typically like the the entry
level type Pros
um or maybe Junior during your instant
responder like um even like
I've seen like the pmpt being put out
for like Junior pantester roles so like
um I don't know I'm not too you know
privy with like the pen testing space I
do think like it's also like a it's it's
accepted in that space as well yeah so
like it could also help with like people
who want to get into like Junior
contestant roles um but those are a lot
more competitive
um but I would say like most entry-level
security roles even like like if you if
you're if you're like a college student
and you apply for internship and you do
that one of those two like you're gonna
be a rock star like literally like
you're gonna be like you're
no literally like you're gonna be like
greater than me I'm telling you like and
and getting that start dog like you know
like it's it's like that's but like for
entry level like I definitely think like
it is it is both are like the pmpt is
definitely getting a level accepted in
like the pen testing space all right so
along the lines of studying for these
certifications I don't think so from
what I've seen from you you don't just
study for them you you create projects
you create like posts on whether that be
on like short form or long form like and
you have like you've written stuff and
whatnot like
what do you recommend people do while
they're studying for these things or in
in addition to studying for these
certifications to kind of like just
improve their skills but also have like
stuff that they can show off on their
resume
so I think
um like different aspects of
certifications can be projectized but
you also have like there has to be like
a sort of balance between
how much how deep am I going to go into
this Rabbit Hole of this project for
what I'm trying to put it for this yeah
right the goal is to learn and to learn
um to retain and be able to use this
these skills when you're working in the
industry yeah um but also you also have
the goal of trying to pass certification
um which you probably have like a
deadline you might have said for
yourself so I do think like pick him
maybe picking one thing or you know a
couple of things from that certification
and just doing like digging deep into
them and making products out of them so
for example
um like say the
these two exams I just talked about
right perfect like let's say you've
taken like you've you've done you know
one of these exams right and you're
trying to you know do the other one
right you've learned a lot a lot a
little bit about like
um fantastic and stuff like that but now
you're you're going into like the
security analyst space right well like
now you have the skills to like test
different attacks right all right then
you know
deploy a Splunk instance in a virtual
machine okay document how you did that
try one of the attacks you did on the
Peterson exam against you know your
vulnerable environment and walk through
what you found on the logs like that's a
perfect project to do first you you're
going to show how you deployed Splunk
how you set up the login you're going to
show how you use how you propagated the
attack and then you're gonna investigate
how that attack happened and then also
how you would remediate that that's the
entire project on its own and imagine if
you do that for like you know maybe one
or two attacks like you don't have to do
like you know so much right yeah the
thing about security is like show like
showing that you have the skills and
understanding of like what you're
learning right and like you know even
Beyond just like doing it as a project
like you don't know who that thing would
be helpful to yeah like I literally have
my blog like being featured on like
articles that I would have never taught
like it would ever be like featured on
to this day so it's like you know just
like do it and like just bring Knowledge
from like what you already know and what
you're learning together
um and it doesn't have to be anything
elaborated right so like
um it could just be like a quick walk
walkthrough of like how to like fix and
it uh remediate like a vulnerability and
like a Windows system
um that you're able to find uh through
like an attack you learn and you know uh
dependent social certification right so
or even one thing one of my friends um
that recently passed the oicp has been
doing he's been creating videos on this
channel his name is Teddy um about how
to make vulnerable machines right like
if the the machine like it's like okay
everyone's talking about how to like
actually break these different things
how do you actually create the
vulnerable machines right okay it's like
that's a project idea it's a good take
yeah yeah so it's like there are
different angles from which you know you
can do this from like um and also like
there comes like creativity as well like
you know all of the stuff that you know
people all the projects that you know a
lot of people do are like recycled from
what other people have done my product
my project is accumulation of like 100
million YouTube videos I wanted to
eventually get to bringing it together
right but it's like you know it's it's
Unique and it's original but like I had
to like learn a lot of stuff from my
different people and figuring it out so
like you know try to be creative and
like you know just it doesn't have to be
too much but make it enough um to you
know prove the point um about your
knowledge
I like
that the idea of like you don't have to
share absolutely everything or document
absolutely everything but you do you
should be strategic with what you do put
that work into and and ideally so what I
tend to recommend people in the cloud
space is more so have two or three
projects or scenarios or whatever you
want to call them that you can speak to
when you do get the opportunity to
interview so you can speak to them
confidently because when you're the more
entry level you are the more they're
sort of just testing you of like is this
someone that's worth giving a chance
instead of like oh this is someone who
actually knows what they're talking
about that comes like as you grow and
you Niche into your career and like
you're sort of sought out for like your
specific skill set but the more entry
level you are the more wider sort of
your your your you know knowledge is and
whatnot which is fine like we all start
somewhere and like hiring managers know
this so if you have like two three
projects that you can like you know in
and out like you documented like you
really understand what's going on if
there's an issue there's a failure you
know how to do it you know why it does
work why it doesn't work things you want
to improve prove you can you can have
ways that you can like if they wanted to
run it for some reason like you want to
run a demo in the interview like you
could do that like two or three that's
not like that's not
I mean it is a lot of work but you don't
have to think about like oh every
chapter of the certification I'm
studying I gotta go and document so I
like that advice too and it seems like
it's very
it's like shared advice across the
disciplines right so you you're focused
on security I'm more in the cloud space
and whatnot but it's good to know that
yeah I think that we share a lot in
terms of like
what it takes to land that first that
first roll which I think is cool I I
wanted to ask you before we move on from
certifications how do you feel about
Cloud security certifications like
because Azure has security specialty the
C the SC certifications AWS has them I
don't know if gcp I'm sure gcp has them
but how do you feel about them when do
you think they're useful
or if do you think they're useful in
general
so I don't have any of those clouds
security certifications
um and I do I hope to a plan to do
um one I'm kind of just like in a weird
space where I do everything and like
it's kind of hard for me to like
specialize on one specific one right now
so I don't want to commit to one yeah um
quite yet
but I think that I think they're good to
understand like what the cloud provider
expects or
um
what the cloud providers uh based on
expectation of security is
um and also like just things you don't
know right so like you know if I were to
study for a class security certification
now I would definitely learn things a
lot of things I didn't know about like
Security in the cloud environments right
a lot of things that I know about
security Now is just like really like
patched knowledge you know across like
articles or books or like YouTube videos
or courses I've taken over time or just
like general knowledge um but like it
would give you like a Consolidated like
a Consolidated
um
framework for learning these different
things right but it might not go in in
depth into other things that might be
Cloud security related for these
different certifications I do think
they're valuable to learn
um you know and get like just get an
understanding of like what should
security look like in this environment
um you know
um but I I really can't speak to them
much I I wish
um and I hope that in the future that
they are a lot more practical yeah um I
would matter of fact the entire Suite of
cloud certifications because I think
that's a very huge value proposition for
having practical Cloud certifications
because
the skills to work in Cloud are
practical
um um and I think like the one I
recently did for like the Azure one like
it's practical you're exploiting
vulnerabilities in Azure environments
and stuff like that so
um I that's kind of my thought on them I
really can't say much because I haven't
done any of them yeah um if I've done
one or you know a couple of them I would
be able to say a lot more about them but
I do think you know it also depends on
like the individual right so like you
know if you're working in the AWS
Centric environment or like a gcp or
Azure septic environment you know it
might be valuable to like you know you
know take to study for a certification
take it if you want to to kind of
understand like you know what should I
be what should I know in terms of
security
um for for my environment at least from
the perspective of the cloud provider
um so that that's kind of my opinion
about them I do think though at the
entry level I don't think like if you
want to do Cloud security you should be
going for any of those certifications
quite yet yeah you should probably focus
on like the architectural and like
administrative ones first
um and then once you understand those
components then go for the security ones
eventually
um but there's also like a a good amount
of like class security Labs out there as
well that
um you would uh that would help you
understand certain things so my opinion
is like kind of all the way to the place
about it no I feel you so
I get what you're saying where like the
two certifications that you mentioned
for anyone trying to get their their
foot in the door for an insecurity makes
more sense and then once you kind of
find yourself working in a specific
environment then probably go and
specialize but I think you know with
security it definitely is beneficial
having like an overview of how Cloud
works so doing like an associate level
AWS Azure or gcp certification I think
would be a nice bonus there in the same
way I say this other the way or other
way around like if you're in a cloud
space and this is what just which is why
I asked you to write phase five of like
learn a cloud like Cloud security
fundamentals like having an idea of how
like security works in the cloud is
always going to be even beneficial no
matter like what like if you're Cloud
developer Cloud admin Cloud support
engineer whatever it is that you're
trying to like work it's like
yeah it's all still it's all Cloud
because like you're either if you're
administrating it you're securing it
whatever you're still in the cloud so
having an idea of it but the
specialization
comes like later like get your foot in
the door I would say for sure but like I
like I like that advice
um I wanna so
let's take a pause here because someone
made
someone made a comment that you were
getting job offers before graduating but
no that's I mean that is the case but
it's also like you work
as you're in the security space you work
in this security space before graduating
like when you graduate do you know yet
so that's kind of like a sad story but
um I I I am hoping and praying to walk
across the stage next month
um I had a little bit of a setback yeah
last night after one of my classes
um which one can you tell me it's it's a
web development class all right all
right yeah
um but I I'm still like um I'm still
trusting that I I could still do it yeah
um so I'm working towards it
um so hopefully uh next month how are
you balancing man like school YouTube
um and like let's just say content
because it's not just YouTube work and
then you're also like a freaking machine
in the gym like and you know and you
have a social life like I know you
you're trying to underplay it but you do
have a social like like I see you you
were you were traveling a bit over the
summer you know over right that was that
was work though that was like all of it
was I love it was worth it but it still
counts
it still counts though so like how how
are you balancing that and um because
then I want to talk to you a little bit
about like like social media and like
monk mode but I want to first ask you
about these work-life balance because a
lot of times people find themselves
you know trying to get into Tech
whatever space it is and they have
full-time jobs they have families and
whatnot so like do you have any tips on
balancing that stuff in generalum soI would say like I think we kind of also
covered this in like the last time we
spoke yeah um I'm gonna have a little I
might have a little bit more to say um
now but I would say like it starts it
starts with like like prioritization
um like first of all like what what is
like important for you to you at this
point in time right for me like the
important things to me right now are
School
work
my tutoring job I forgot you do that too
oh my goshthat's ridiculous
all right but you know just like first
of all certain priorities right so
school work tutoring job gym and uh so
yeah school work the tutoring job
the school work and a tutoring job are
my main priorities right so work that's
my career that gives me experience and
pays the bills in school I just it's out
of necessity
um and my tutoring job also like it's
just my passion right yeah those are my
three my top three priorities right so
those ones like take precedence over
everything right so like every day
um those are top of mind then next is
two things working out at the gym right
working out and sleep right
um oh my god let's go let's go all right
yeah so working out keeps me sane um and
just like you're just like keeping me
healthy like you know I spend a lot of
time sitting down for my computer like
yeah it definitely need to like you know
get my back straight and all that so
like just making sure like you know I'm
doing that and also like it just keeps
me saying like just keeps me like
um like just keep pushing like you know
just having that mindset I just like
freaking blasting like rap music in the
gym at like 11 p.m in the night like
just really like I need your playlist
man do you use SpotifyI mean like apple music like is not
perfect
um the only thing not perfect about it
is like this the shuffle but it just it
just does it for me um so all right all
right it's right because I also use
apple music but I only use it because my
brother sends me tracks to like shares
stuff there but I use Spotify because
like the random playlist on Spotify I
love them yes but anyway I agree so
you're talking about priorities but also
you have this you're all right for just
context for people that joins after day
is 20 years old he works as a what is a
detection engineer detection engineer at
datadog currently a student a teacher a
YouTuber
a family person or a family member we
can say
um I probably missed something too like
he's super fit dude you're like I I keep
up with your products with Jim too
stupid fit dude and you you've done all
of this and now obviously now you're
hanging out here with me by the age of
20 in mindset and you're talking about
priorities and whatnot but how does one
how do you get there that's that's what
like because like I feel like we have
very similar mindsets but I'm 28 right
I'm like you know getting closer to 30.
at 20 dude at 20 I was like I was a
complete idiot like there's no way I
could have ever thought the way like you
can't catch me at 20 being like oh you
know what sleep sleep's important
so how does like like tell me like where
where did this this come from or were
you always like this or like did
something happen you were like you know
what I gotta change my life or something
like that
I mean I guess like so I
um like I'd say like
[Music]
um
from from childhood I've I've kind of
always been like
serious about life right like I've
always been the guy that's like you know
everyone's like oh you know
um you know let's do this let's do that
I'm like oh like you know let's not do
that like you know like touching always
could be this could have some
consequences I've always been that kid
that's just like just a serious kid
right I'm always like that person like
I'm the one who like
I don't want to say like I don't like as
a kid I'll be the person that like you
know everybody wants to go like do bad
stuff and I'm like oh you guys don't do
that like that right so like I'm just
gonna have I'm just kind of always being
like you know I guess like the good kid
like in that sense right yeah um but
like that doesn't another thing is also
like
um I guess the family I come from right
so like
um you know like my dad like is a very
like he's a very interesting person
um like uh you know he he used to read a
lot I definitely took that from him
um and like he's also like a obviously a
serious person it's like and it was also
someone I used to like aspire to be like
right I had a lot of traits from him so
like I I do I do have a lot of traits
for my dad that I um sometimes I don't
even realize like um you know but like
it definitely I guess it was definitely
something I grew up with and then you
know
um in 20 20 2019 no 20 2020
um was like kind of like the like a
breaking point for me um 2019 2020
um so like 2019 uh I had like a car
crash
um so like first time I I ever had any
like severe thing happen to me right um
this is me like if I ever talked about
this I guess I guess I guess today's the
day
um I wasn't gonna stop you so good so I
had a car crash um and like it just
completely changed my life so yeah uh
what happened was um you know was it my
fault um you know got here from behind
from
um person wasn't paying attention
um so like what happened was this was
like freshman year of college like first
semester
um like my my left hand like tore open
right here yeah it's still healing till
now
um and like you know my car got totaled
you know everything was just like
everything just went downhill right
um like and so you know I my car got
totaled
um so I could I couldn't like you know
drive to work so I lost my job
um then I I failed my I failed one of my
classes in college there's this girl I
liked I was talking to that time like
she kind of dumped me I don't know what
happened yeah like
umthat wasn't even like it wasn't even a
heartbreak I would say like because
we're even dating right so like that was
like phase one right and then phase two
was like I just like sunk into
depression like this is like a period I
was just like like depression just like
all the way down into that hole all
right um and then like that was and that
was towards the end of 2019 then in 2020
like
um I got into another uh uh relationship
and then like
um that also went downhill right so like
this was me trying to like fill the
whole of depression like by you know
trying to like get into a relationship
or like do things that would like all
right you know you know pluck that hole
so
um but like I just and this is also the
first time this was I know this was the
period when I feel the a plus for the
first time oh my God so like not the a
plus that'll do it
yeah every possible bad thing that could
happen like happened between like
October of 2019 and like
Feb like February March April of 2020
um so like this was appeared as like
yeah like I have to like reset and then
like once that I recent happened like
you know like just like
um like like just you know we're
calibrating the money and everything
like then you know things just happens
to happen like
um on like continuously right so good
things started happening like really
continuously right and that's also when
like the self-improvement journey began
like my self-improvement journey like
began at the same time that my like
career Journey began so look at that
it's just been like working at the same
time so like I'm still on the journey
like you know like I have a lot of
learning to do yeah to do but like I've
picked up a lot you know another thing
that you know I you know I've been doing
a lot is just like you know watching
content from you know YouTube or like um
for one people that
um kind of you know have certain
mindsets that I embody yeah within books
as well like books have definitely
helped me like with my knowledge um and
like the good thing the thing about good
knowledge and like um you know having
certain mindset and like
self-development is like it's like a
it's a huge world and like the dots just
connect like all over the place like
it's like once once you learn something
new what's like a new video read a new
book like the the dots just keep
connecting and like the dots connect
everywhere we're like to connect in your
career to connect in like your like your
physical life going to the gym or to
connect and you're like your emotional
life your everything like that so like
that's kind of how it happened
um you know like every like I I just I
that was just kind of like the Turning
Point
um and it just like kept me on like you
know trying to like apply all the things
I've been learning um both like in my
career and like in life in general it's
just like bring everything together
because like it's a whole it's a
cohesive life yeah yeah everything about
everything everything that I do is like
my identity and like everything that I
that um that I learned from you know all
my experiences apply to everything so
that's kind of how I became um day
talking about sleep there's this saying
that I this quote that I like a lot
that's called how you do anything is how
you do everything
um and I I feel like you sort of embody
that because
you're you're very detailed and very
like you should work really hard and I I
can tell because like I follow like ever
since I met you well before not meeting
you in person but new of you I was like
oh like I know he's putting it putting
in the work and like you know that's
where that's why you're at where you're
at now
and
I wanted to talk to you about WGU
because this is another big part of like
your student you're like you're doing
this while working full time
uh which takes a lot of like
I was like I remember I was on you I
think I was on your Discord
and I was like man I want to go to WGU
um I want like to to for my contacts I
have like two semesters in computer
science so like I you know and whatnot
and I have like work experience and
whatnot and like WGU can use that as
credits like towards like completing
your your program which I think is
awesome
um a lot of like local community college
would be like no you gotta start from
zero and that's always been for me like
I don't want to start from zero yeah but
I remember putting in your Discord like
man I wanna I wanna do this but I don't
have time and you replied with something
that just kind of stuck with me it's
like just do it like the time will make
itselfI was like damn it Dave why are you
telling me the truth I don't want to
hear that right now but no I wanna I
wanna talk to you about WGU because I've
looked at it a couple of times I looked
at it before the cloud program had
like different tracks and then I think
earlier this year someone told me like
WGU has different Cloud tracks whatnot
and I was like all right now this looks
like especially the Azure one to me
obviously because that's like my
ecosystem what not like and now I'm like
this looks now it looks like oh I really
need to do this but I want to talk I
want to like know about like why you
picked WGU what's your experience been
do you recommend it for people who are
looking into like going to college like
you I know you've done a couple
different programs and uh you're in like
you're not in the same one that you
started in right now so like talk to me
a little bit about WGU all right so um
also for context I have changed my major
in the last three years like five times
my fifth major which you can do in WGU
which is great yeah yeah so
um so starting with like why I chose WGU
um so I finished my I didn't finish but
like I was about to finish my community
college program last year
um so that was like after two years
right
um and this is after trading my major
like two or three times because what
happened was I you know got my
internship right after like like right
before the freshman year and so like I
started working
um and I was like okay like these
classes are no longer making any sense
like they don't I not I'm not trying to
sound like proud web I'm above this like
I already have the experience like um it
doesn't it wasn't making any sense to
like go credit go get credit for that
anymore yeah like the credit I I need is
like in the experience I'm really
building so
um I was like okay I'm gonna just shift
switch to from cyber security to general
education like just a general Bachelors
of
um arts or science right no major
specifically
um and then
um you know I finished it I finished it
but I had like two classes last I was
like I told my mom I was like I don't I
don't I don't care about the associates
degree all I care about is bachelor's
degree which is what you care about so I
don't need to finish these classes let
me just transfer these classes into WGU
because
WGU
does not require me to come with classes
uh WWE accept all my most of my
certifications right so like
um all the a plus never plots all of
those certifications they transferred
into the degree program also my credits
from the Community College transfer as
well and it gives me the flexibility to
like continue my career as I I had been
on that trajectory right because I was
already working full-time at this point
like I was like there's no way I can do
a a regular four-year program like I'm
not going to be in campus like trying to
like work at the same time like yeah
yeah like so
um I so I just went I decided to go to
WGU so like the flexibility of like
doing that and also you also don't have
to like like if you know if you
understand the concepts in the class you
don't have to like you know wait for
like you know till the end of the
semester you can immediately test out of
the class right like literally like I I
I love that about the school is so
freaking so freaking out absolutely
let's give a little context WGU first
for because we just keep saying it and
like we haven't given context so WGU is
Western Governors University it's an
accredited University here in the US and
it's comp Competency Based so you take
you pick up classes but if you feel like
you already know you can test out of
them like almost right away right yes
you can you take the exam and if you
pass whatever it is like the requirement
you think that class is essentially
checked off and it's it's like very like
um sort of like popular with I think a
lot of like I.T folks but people like
who are already in careers and whatnot
because they've learned a lot of skills
gained certifications and whatnot at
their roles and they want to be able to
bring those in and make those count as
credit and WGU is one of the few schools
that actually does that they'll take
your experience they'll take your uh
certifications and be like all right you
know what you don't need to do these
classes these classes are all checked
off to finish your degree and turn a
bachelor's in like there's a bunch of
different programs I know those are
security there's cloud with different
tracks there's like um a very like
General like BS and I.T there's there's
like I think there's like healthcare
stuff there's like business stuff
there's a whole bunch of other things
like
um and that's I first came across it
maybe three four years ago and I was
like this is interesting but because
work was just like what I wanted to
figure out at that time now where I'm
like my career is pretty much like I'm
at the company that I want to be at at
the moment I'm in the role that I want
to be at now I have a little bit more
like headspace to kind of like dive into
education which is why I've been like
thinking about it and you're like the
closest person I know who's doing it and
I just love like like you you post your
progress often too and I'm like oh man
this guy's almost gonna graduate which I
love but I just think like having a
school like that here is
it's just it's a different way of
learning and it's a different way to
have like a university but I feel like
it's just more universities need to
adopt this model because yes like you
also posted like
you you dislike having to do these
classes that are just not relevant and
so many University programs are like
packed with so many classes that are not
relevant so do you wanna do you wanna
like maybe talk about like
yeah you see you you mentioned about
switching your majors and whatnot uh so
what's like your mindset now you want to
just want you want to get done with it
and you're like you're out
yeah so like right now so like yeah
that's that's my mindset initially was
like oh I could just like you know
slowly just like chop at this right you
know um alongside work um but now
it it was getting to the point where
like I so I I took so I took a six month
break when I you know I was interviewing
earlier in this year so I was
interviewing with AWS and did a dog
either this year so like I was like
there's no way I can combine this with
school um especially studying for those
interviews yeah um and then when I
started I did a dog I was like
um I need to like get situated in here
before I get back into school so I took
a whole six month break and then when I
got back as I was about to get back I
was like I cannot continue with the
cloud program because it would just take
me too long because I would have to do
all of those certifications and I know I
can pick those certifications as I want
to over my career they're not a pressing
concern for me right now like I have
other priorities which points back to my
initial point of priorities
um so I was like the easiest program for
me to finish right now no excessive math
requirements because I don't really like
math and no excessive uh certifications
is the IT program which is what I
eventually settled on and I'm actually
almost done I just I literally have just
two classes left yeah
um so like that's that's my mindset I
was like I just want to just like get
this and have have it you know now that
I can right because it's like
um I could just like be like Oh I'm I'm
like I'm 20 I have my career all set for
me I don't need a degree but of course
that is true but it's like at the same
time it's like I don't want to like then
come back you know no offense to you
like and be like 28 and be like oh maybe
I want to you know go back and just like
you know get this degree done yeah right
now I still have
yeah I mean like right now I still have
the energy and like you know I still
have the willpower to want to pursue it
yeah
um now so like might as well just like
you know you know just Thug it out and
just like get it done
um that I can so that's kind of like my
mindset around there right now because
I'm I'll have it and I'll have it
forever so yeah I feel yeah I think
that is
I don't think I regret not going
finishing at the time that I could
finish because I dropped out for like a
bunch of other reasons but it is
something that is always in the back of
my mind definitely
uh it is always like ah should I do it
should I not and have I had it done and
out of the way it would just not not
bother me and I can't like you said I
can feel like oh I'm set I got my career
all set whatever like I don't have to
care about it but
I just don't think that way I think I'm
always like what can I do better to like
like to like upscale and whatnot
um and also like parents
my parent my mom is still like yeah I
know you're gonna go back one day I
could be like 60 and my mom would be
like I know you're gonna do this and
you're gonna graduate you're gonna bring
me that diploma so it's another like
pressure that I have too for that if
that is actually something that matters
or I don't know what but I just like to
be able to see them have like that sense
of Pride because it's something that you
you will accomplish and now I might
accomplish I think also plays a big
impact
um yeah but yeah no I I was like I'm
always just in awe like how you do it
how like how you handle it all for and
someone asked here can
WGU be done remotely like yeah it's all
it's all online but it's only in the US
right
yes um I uh as far as I know they don't
um do it International
yes I think
there was some talks about them
extending their program at some point to
Canada but none of that is official
um but yeah it's all
it's all online which is fantastic
um absolutely yeah man yeah so we're at
about an hour I want to dive into like
people's questions uh because we talked
a lot about you and and and whatnot and
when you're in New York we'll have to do
another catch-up again uh for sure and
whatnot but like let's I'm gonna take
some time to to go through these
questions and just see but someone was
asking about cyber security boot camps
and if we make that like a higher level
up how do you feel about boot camps in
general
um
I think they're well intentioned
by something I think you sound like
you're media trained
uh but I don't think they I don't think
they always served a value that um you
know they uh they should
um there is one though that I can speak
speak to because I do know someone who I
respect and who went through the program
and is doing very well in the career
um and I you know by proxy would
recommend it so this is not an
endorsement it's only a recommendation
um it's called level effect
um and like it's um it's actually like
you know what I like very like practical
and all that so if you would want to
consider that I would say go that route
go like take a look at it but I do think
that um again it's there's also the
trade-off right it's like there's a
trade-off of you know the effort and
energy and
looking for resources to learn on your
own
um versus having a curated uh curated
resources from The Bootcamp and access
to people you know if you have questions
stuff like that if you're doing like the
self-study thing like you kind of have
to look for that on your own yeah yeah
enjoy communities asking Twitter Reddit
Discord all of that and not everyone is
always helpful but like you know if
you're paying for that service or the
boot camp like it's kind of is an
expectation that you get that help that
you need yeah um as you're learning so
that's the only one I would recommend
not endorse um I definitely would check
it out if you're looking to go that way
I do think you can still go this journey
like learning on your own and it's very
valuable as well yeah I I share a very
similar opinion on boot camps I I just
don't endorse or recommend any because I
think on average the cloud ones are
anywhere from like 15 to 20 000 you're
talking about like a couple months to
like a year and program and like how
much time you're spending and whatnot
and I think with that amount of money
and that amount of time with way less
money you can teach yourself absolutely
everything that you need to teach
yourself you get your account in Azure
or in Google or gcp or AWS and whatnot
and with significantly less amount of
money but also what you're learning is
you're learning how to learn which in 20
years or like let's not say 20 years
let's say like in five years when you
need to learn something else for your
job are you going to go to a boot camp
again no you need to know how to teach
yourself these things you need to know
how to find answers you need to know how
to ask questions and the earlier you do
that in your career the better it is for
you don't get me wrong some people do
need like guided learning and whatnot
but I just think
you I I really do feel like people
should exhaust absolutely every single
self-taught method whether that be a
course like a video course books
documentation YouTube whatever it is
first and like really try to get and
understand how people how you learn
first and then if none of that works for
whatever reason then like okay look into
like guided stuff like boot camps and
one but like
I don't think it should be People's
First
decision and I also feel like boot camps
take advantage of like oh go to our boot
camp and we'll get you a job like job
guarantee and it's like and there's been
so much news out there about like how
these promises are frauds they're fake
so and I don't like seeing people really
take advantage of either
um so we share a similar a similar
opinion there um
someone asks us about any cyber security
roles that you're doing programming as
well
cyber security was that you're doing
programming yeah
like programming a lot day to day
yeah so
um there are definitely roles like that
um you knowso
um a lot of roles like
um especially like higher level ones
um in like security engineering like
require a little like automation
scripting
um so you're not necessarily like
building a loud software yeah like a
software engineer you're more so like
just like automating tasks um script and
stuff like that or maybe even maybe like
finding bugs in code
um so like you know might have to do
like a lot of data like python or go
um even
um some rules that are not necessarily
like that way maybe like you might have
to write scripts to like you know for
like validation or like for like
um GitHub hook hooks or like commit
checks like all those things like being
able to like write you know scripts for
that um definitely is valuable
um and yeah when you when you start
getting into like security engineering
like that program is like really
um beneficial which is kind of why I'm
dedicating like the entire like first
six months to make sure that
um for learning python um so like python
python and go are you know typically
like de facto these days yeah
um for like security
et cetera going to like more like lower
level stuff or like malware analysis or
like export development that's when
you're doing like C plus plus C shakes
of those things so um yeah that's kind
of yeah but it's definitely like if you
want to like if you wanna if you wanna
better your chances of being as a cyber
security candidate like definitely like
you know have like a at least like a
scripted language like python under your
belt like it definitely would be very
helpful and gives you more opportunities
for a career advancement
all right dope so people automation
python go cool yes uh let me see yeah
people were like talking throughout this
whole thing which is great uh let's seewhat's harder to get a job in cyber
security or cloud
huh
I'll say cyber security yeah I would say
cyber security as well
um entry leveluh yeah yeah I would probably say cyber
security just because there'sjust because the certifications alone
are tougherI also think like expectations are
higher
for the can like candidates coming into
brawls for entry level roasting cyber
security yeah
I haven't looked we should do some some
kind of collab video on comparing
i j I do agree that it's more difficult
I just think because
it's not like I don't I still feel like
security is still like a space that a
little bit
gate gate kept like gatekeeping still
around like everyone who I know in
security is just like super professional
super senior and I don't see a lot of
these entry-level like roles or people
in these roles that talk about it I feel
like that is starting to change a little
bit
um but I would also I would agree that
it's probably hard against cyber
security just because it's like it's
already like a niche in a way oh yeah
like Cloud can be like super General and
then you have Cloud security that's like
a niche yeah um so I would say like yeah
it's it's
it would be more difficult but speaking
about like requirements or expectations
like what are like entry-level skill set
security roles like sock analysts are
expected to know
um definitely like a strong
understanding of networking
um that's like
that's
um you know that's very important
um specifically it's like speaking for
stock analysis right so strong
understanding of networking
um General understanding of like you
know
popular security attacks right
um also like like if you if if
um requirements if if you if you want to
meet the requirements right
um like definitely have those skills and
also like you know log analysis right
um like using like a Sim or like a you
know a log analysis tool like that
definitely understanding that is
important because like some of these
tools have like their query languages
like Splunk has like the SPL
um I know like Sentinel uses kqr right
so like if you if you kind of have
understanding of one like it's a lot
easier to kind of like apply that
knowledge to like querying other
um um a Sim tools so like definitely
like getting your hands dirty with that
um then understanding of like
active directory like a lot of
environments are like very active
they're actually like focused
um so definitely understand like how
active directory works like your Windows
Event codes like that's definitely a
good one to like kind of know some of
them I mean of course you'd have to
memorize them but like it's going to
know you know some of them um and also
like maybe a little bit of cloud some
environment most a lot of environments
now are like you know hybrid or like
fully Cloud environment so like just
kind of understand like you know these
different things in cloud like like
basic uh Cloud
um uh security issues or concepts um and
this is me this is me as a fair person
that I think are like these are the
requirements I think should be for uh
yeah
a lot of times they're not necessarily
this way
um they're definitely having like you
know maybe like two or three
certifications under your belt
um you know a couple projects um but the
biggest thing the biggest thing the
biggest thing I can I can put you
through is like networking like get your
name out there or like just get your
name out there on Twitter LinkedIn do
projects
um yeah like projects are like one of
the biggest ways do blogs oh I wanted to
speak speak about projects your home lab
time to talk a little bit about it
and because I made a big impact on on
your career right yeah uh absolutely
absolutely
um yeah till this day like I like like
literally on Twitter like
um somebody like referenced it
um
um on like a like a Blog about like Trey
hunting and stuff like that and I was
like wow like it's still relevant to
this day you know in such a context like
that so and it's still it's still it's
still like this is one of my biggest
flakes let's do number one on Google
search for cyber security home lab like
till this day for over a year everyone
go Google cyber security home lab and
then you're gonna know what we're
talking about yeah like it's still
number one I don't even support you
anymore because like a lot of the
content there's uh
um outdated but but
um there might be a update coming uh
next year I'll have a little
announcements coming next year so like
definitely keep an eye out um like this
it's gonna be it's gonna be next level
but um
um fingers crossed on that you know
gonna do like a paid version or
something
um no this one is going to be free but
there are certain things you're gonna
have to pay for interesting interesting
all right all right I see
can you talk a little bit about like so
you did you just sit down one day and
you're like I'm gonna make a home lab
like how did that happen um no this was
this was this was months yeah this took
months so I I actually had an initial
one that's that failed
um so um I started a series this was
like in late 2020
um and it was blogger YouTuber War on
YouTube
um it was it was initially on YouTube
um and I was following this guide I
still have the book um but it didn't go
it wasn't like a lot of the things I was
trying to do weren't working well and it
was because I was like kind of following
the book to the T
um so I was like no this is like it this
the the goal of this was to help me
build a home lab but like
I wanted something different
um maybe a little something a little bit
more original so like okay I'm gonna go
go out there and learn about all these
different pieces because like it's
there's different pieces of that lab
right if you look at the architecture
which is like on the first page like
just different things are interconnected
like it's they're very intricate things
that you need to know to build that to
and also configure the networking for
that lab which is also why I I'm picking
networking so
um you know um it took me like three or
four months because I had to do it a
bunch of times I had to do it first like
bring all the pieces together get it to
work and I have to do it again for the
blog so like to actually you know get
out the pro step by step for the blog
and then the third time for the video
series so like yeah you knew that in and
out no like yeah 100 like and that's
part of why I I also was doing support
for it so like if you do if on the home
lab there was like a link to my Discord
if you had any issues with the lab I
would personally support you with like
you know fixing issues troubleshooting I
did that for about a year yeah I just
became unsustainable yeah um for me
um and also like a little stuff got
outdated but I learned a lot from that
like it like it taught me a lot about
like different things like in different
like the configuration of those
different things
um setting it up and also like using it
on my own like one thing people wanted
me to do was show them how to use the
lab I was like what I already did in
this lab is like enough like if I were
to start a whole series of like how to
do this and do that like you know that
that'll probably all be uh sustainable
um but like it definitely taught me a
lot it helped me a lot with my
interviews
um and also like kind of is I guess
plays a weird story into like how I've
actually got my data Dog Job indirectly
um like
um like it definitely like put a huge
role like entirely So like
um I definitely owe a lot of my
um you know my clout and My Success
um to that to that project so I think
the concept of like building a like a
core project where you kind of just
apply everything that you're learning
but also like as you learn something
else you can apply to it as well like
for Azure there's
a project called the Azure pet store
which is like a colleague of mine he was
studying for the az204 certification and
he had no idea about his his past
experience was in a different Cloud so
he came and joined Microsoft and then he
was studying for that certification he's
like I need to like put this into like
something practical so he built this the
set of 19 Labs called the Azure pet
store and like
and whenever he learned something new he
just finds a new feature to add to it so
there's like there's kubernetes there's
containers there's serverless there's uh
no code low code there's Azure devops
there's GitHub there's Kiva there's uh
active directory there's a whole bunch
of things in that and he kind of just
keeps adding to it and updating it as he
wants to so I'm working on something
like that for myself as well but mainly
just to learn but I think you know now
having all the tools that you can do
these stuff like on your own machine you
have your own account and like create
these things or like in the cloud and
whatnot it's like so doable for people
that go out and just create these things
and like just hack on it every single
day and like if you get failures and
whatnot like that's fine because it's
like not production level like this
isn't like you're not like running like
Instagram servers or anything like that
and you learned a lot from like
troubleshooting like the skills you
learn from like troubleshooters are so
valuable like even like when you get
into the like actual job like you're
gonna run into like a bunch of Errors
like you're gonna run into like a bunch
of issues like the things you're not
familiar with so the skill you learn
from like you know researching how to
like you know solve issues like you know
going to a stack Overflow and yeah you
know looking at error codes and stuff
like that like those things are very
valuable so like you know you'll
definitely learn a lot from that I do
want to do something like that again
next year
um but I'm I'm gonna so my plan is to
revamp this one to a more updated
version like really spiff it up
um make it more updated updated I'm
gonna do a bunch of other ones
um for cloud
um but these are going to be like a
little bit more advanced but
um more on that in the future all right
everyone needs to like I put your links
in the chat
um for everyone to like keep updated
with like
like your your social medias I wanna but
like what's so what's the focus for the
rest of you I just finished school and
like keep doing YouTube you took a break
from YouTube though like are you back
I'm sort of back on um I took like a
two-month break but I'm sort of back on
right now
um I might have to like take a a slide
break again just after like just you
know uh find out this rest of school
stuff but I'm kind of back on that I'm
probably gonna like maybe just keep up
the
short film content I recycle the ones
from Instagram to YouTube oh okay and
um maybe do like like I like there's
there's there's some videos of viewers
that I like like you just do like these
quick two or three minute videos with
like very short and succinct content
answering like a very specific question
and like I probably would do like a
couple of doubts because like there are
some things I don't necessarily require
like 10 minute 12 minute videos like you
could just do like a One-Shot video
covering something so I might do like um
some of those for some things I've had
I've had like lined up yeah um at the
same time though
um I do have this crazy thing in my head
whereby I know that if I'm consistent
enough
and I keep the quality I could get a 20K
subscribers at the end of the year oh
heck yeah yeah easy so I'm thinking of
like keeping the consistency so like
it's kind of like it's kind of somewhere
in the middle but we'll see no I feel
you
all right man well we've been doing this
hour 20 we answered I feel like well we
didn't answer that much but I feel like
the conversation has a lot that people
can go back to I'll make sure to have
uh I have an editor now he's gonna go
back and add all these time stamps yeah
so I don't have to worry about that but
I think all the questions that they
answered will be in time sense so you
can watch your recording uh man I I
appreciate you it's always such a good
good time to sit down and talk to you
and like always keep up to you because
you're like one of the realest person
people there like you don't you're not
out here like selling people dreams
you're not out here like you know lying
or whatnot you're like being honest like
your last video about like
yo this stuff takes like it like sucks
it like sucks like there's a lot of work
that you got to put in sucks and you
don't just show up like and then you
make it you after you make it you gotta
show up you run harder like that's just
like that's just the reality here's the
last question someone asked I don't know
if you've done a video on this are you
comfortable answering this question
how much your salary is at the moment uh
I'm not ready for that conversation yet
you want to give a range a range arrange
yeah
um arrange no I'm not no six figures six
figures is good enough okay six figures
all right people he makes six figures 20
years old making six figures
that's dude you're living a good life
man
you're living a good life for sure I'm
still not in my final form yet though oh
yeah I mean but this is where this is
essentially where you you kind of got
like your first solid step right that's
not how you feel and this is your first
solid step 20 years old can't even drink
but you're making six figures and you
and you care about sleep like I think
you're I think you're ahead of you know
into good into good space and whatnot
but um for me like there's plenty of
videos on like money stuff and I have a
video coming out on Wednesday about how
I spend my monthly so I go over like how
much I save how much I invest how much I
pay for this how much I pay for that and
kind of like books that I've used and
whatnot
um so that'll be on my channel on
Wednesday but I've had a I've talked
about this a lot yeah so people I find
that I I I'm definitely an advocate for
salary transparency um I do have those
conversations with like people in my my
circles so like of course like you know
like you know my friends know stuff like
that
um but like it's uh I'm not at the point
where I'm really ready to give out that
information to the world yeah um but
eventually maybe like next year like the
year after that
um I'll be a lot more transparent about
that to the world no I feel you I feel
you I it's
it definitely opens especially with
publicly and especially being at a
company where that has a lot of clout it
can open you to up to a lot of like
just other people's opinions that could
potentially impact like your team
Rapport that could impact like I don't
know a bunch of other things and I knew
before making any of the videos that I
did where I spoke about salary like I
knew that was like the potential but
then at the end of the day like if you
look at everything that I've put into
like my career like the amount of money
the raises the promotions is all
like
well well deserved so if anyone ever
came at me and was like well why does
she make this much and I didn't I would
be like well like look at my track
record right like it's all like
documented here like are you working 14
hours a day are you making videos every
single week for two years are you
streaming additionally on top of all
your like your you know day to day like
you're not so like
I mean yeah and those things have
happened which I think is um
it's you know it just is but like all
you can do is kind of like set a good
example but it it's I wouldn't have done
it like
a year ago for sure now but like now
where I'm at like whatever dude yeah
whatever it is yeah all right man well I
appreciate you I'm gonna cut it here
because we're doing this for like a
while but everyone be sure to check out
day and next week I got
blue I think yeah next week is Lou yeah
we're talking getting into Cloud uh he
owns open up the cloud and just gives
him a lot of good uh people getting into
Cloud kind of advice and whatnot so uh
be sure to catch up that one and peace
out Amanda