I will always recommend a foundation in
Linux to anyone who wants to get into a
cloud engineering discipline but I
realize that understanding why Linux
matters or what exactly it means to have
a Linux skill set is difficult for
beginners when you don't have the sort
of experience in a production role or
actually just working uh in cloud and
whatnot so I'm going to try to show a
couple of examples of what I mean with
like oh you should be comfortable with
Linux or most people say that they're
really just talking about like bash but
I'll I'll speak more of this in in the
video right so with all that being said
hi I'm GPS and I do Cloud things at
Microsoft here on YouTube don't forget
to like And subscribe so I don't have to
sell uh you know 10 eBooks on Twitter uh
and welcome to a new video all right so
I'm in Microsoft learn which I love
using for workshops and demos and just
overall encouraging new people to get
Hands-On with Azure because it actually
Provisions a an environment in Azure for
you and you have a full-on cloud show
here uh and you don't have to pay for
anything you are learning on Microsoft's
time the one that we're using
specifically today is secure and isolate
access Azure Resources by using network
security groups and service endpoints
and actually highly recommend you go
through this it takes about an hour but
I would recommend you go through it do
the exercises do the first one and the
second one in order because you have to
they build on each other and then go
through another round and take some
notes and if you want to blog about a
Blog about it if you want to sort of
build further on this exercise going
implement it in your own environment
maybe create some infrastructure as code
files for it you know there's a bunch of
things that you can add and improve into
it maybe go ahead and deploy an app and
some actual data to the data in actual
database of the data server and whatnot
but this is a very common development
infrastructure and Cloud so the sooner
you get Hands-On and sort of building
something like that the better and you
can do it all within this uh exercise
here so I highly recommend you check it
out and also you get uh 10 send boxes
per day and about an hour I think it's
an hour for each sandbox so that's 10
hours of learning I don't think anyone
would do that every single day but you
can if you wanted to so do go check it
out I'll have it linked in the
description and the other reason I'm
using this one is because I've actually
gone through it and I don't really like
to speak to things that I haven't
actually used so that I can say I highly
recommend it and give it a 10 over 10.
okay cool
um so like I mentioned the exercise
itself doesn't really matter I kind of
want to just showcase a little bit of
like commands and and sort of how the
what does it actually mean to oh become
comfortable with Linux before getting
into Cloud require it so even without
doing anything let's take a look at what
we've got going on here at the left
we're in a shell we're in a cloud shell
specific to Azure a a when we think of
like scripting we think of bash we think
of Linux we think of automation all
these things are are done via cli's
clis are text-based programs that allow
us to use commands to work with a
computer work with a server
every single service out there is going
to have a CLI in terms of cloud maybe
not every single but the majority so
there's either clis or sdks sdks are
using programming languages to interact
with a cloud service Cloud platform
cli's are using scripting languages and
commands to interact with
Cloud platforms and services and whatnot
so we're already looking here we see
black screen and um you know in this
case green I think it's white text too
right uh clear yeah white text there
cool
so if you have never worked with
something like this then you already
know that you gotta go brush up and like
dive into Linux and whatnot
um so yeah so I'm gonna just copy a
couple of of
commands that are in this this tutorial
and
uh I'll kind of will explain as as I go
uh like what are things that you should
be familiar with right so this first one
here is already something that you
should be familiar with so when it comes
to scripting and and
[Music]
um sort of typing out commands if you
ever have like a really long value like
for example we have here on the right
side uh we don't ever want to have to
type this out manually right like never
know because first of all no one's ever
going to remember that
but this is where variables come into so
here what we're saying is okay
shell or I want you to grab this value
here that I'm never going to remember
and save it into a variable called r g
this one here so what does this mean
well this means that the next time I
want to use RG so I can use Echo to
print out the value of a variable RG
it's going to actually return that
full-on thing value here right so I
don't have to remember this anymore and
this is something you become familiar
with when you develop that Linux skill
set right that automation skill set that
bash skill set that I'm sort of using
them
um interchangeably though depending on
the context they can't be but in this
context I feel like it fits right so
that's already a skill set that you need
to know there
now oh here's actually one being used
right and if I do control shift V there
we go
we can see that uh let me zoom in
actually a little bit more here and so
we can talk a little bit about a couple
of things going on here
um so right away that value right here
is being used a dollar sign means uh
this actually we're calling a variable
here remember we saved that learn dash
dash number Dash like you see I don't
even remember now uh into this variable
but I do remember RG so it makes it a
lot easier for me to continue working
with commands when you know that value I
don't have to remember it and we're
going to be utilizing it in this command
so uh what else is going on here well uh
you can see that all the commands that
I'm using with Azure specific to the
Azure CLI are going to start with a z
and these prefixes are established by
the clis themselves whoever develops the
CLI is the teams and whatnot so for
example I know like the Azure static web
apps uses SWA so all the commands that
you're going to run are going to start
with SWA like the Azure function CLI
uses Funk
the Azure developer CLI uses azd and
whatnot so that's why this always starts
with easy and the more you use more
cli's and more cli's the more you'll
sort of start to remember like oh I want
to do this in Azure after you start with
this I know that the more I use you know
and the other one you're like okay
they'll have to start with different
prefixes and whatnot following that we
have another command Network bnet create
um and then I'm going to show you how
you can actually know the list of all
these things here too but you can see a
difference between like for example the
use of this network command and then we
see here a dash dash well what is that
right well these are what we call
parameters or flags and parameters and
flags are used in combination with
commands to manipulate what you are
sending or what is getting returned to
whatever it is that you're interacting
with so in this case the AZ Network
v-net create I'm creating a virtual
Network and Azure and I'm assigning a
bunch of parameters here so for example
I'm saying I want it to be created in
this Resource Group I wanted to have
this name Erp servers I wanted to have
this address prefix and then I want to
have one the subnet because by default
every virtual network has to have a
subnet if you don't provide the name and
prefixes one a default one will be
created for you so I want the subnet
name to be called applications and the
prefix is to be this address here or
this range here
and whatnot right uh but again you will
know and learn more parameters that you
will want to send like the right
combinations to the correct commands as
you use these more and more so if you
are following a tutorial that's like a
graphical one so for example if you are
creating a vena in the portal I would
recommend it instead like okay go
through that but go and find the
equivalent to that in acli so for
example this would probably take me I
don't know three four minutes uh to
create in the portal whereas you know
typing out this command is maybe a
couple of seconds right uh so yeah I
think I already did this so I'm not
going to run it again uh actually can I
just do clear yeah perfect clear
um cool
so that those parameters and those flags
will manipulate what goes to the CLI and
I in this case what goes to Azure but
also what can be returned from Azure
right so for example in in uh a use case
for
like manipulating what is returned to
you from Azure is something like
querying like Json data uh so there's
this example here here so for example
uh let's say I want to look at all the
virtual machines that I have in my uh
this current Azure development
environment so we can use azvm list
right but uh clys tend to use Json for
this type of information but Json is
great for computers to communicate with
other computers but it's not really the
best for humans
to look at all right so for example
let's say uh this this command here is
trying to get me to figure out if the
VMS that I actually have in my
subscription are running the
provisioning state of them or the power
State actually
or power State and provisioning State
but if I look at this I'd have to scroll
I had to look know what I'm looking for
and whatnot uh and yes as you do these
more and more you'll kind of know what
you want to look for but you never want
to be in a situation where you want to
scroll so manipulating output is another
skill set that you get with you know
scripting and Bash and whatnot because
there are things like the AWA the awk
command there are things like the grip
command and whatnot that are all about
manipulating there's things like
pipeline pipelines and piping and
redirection and all these kinds of
things that are all about manipulating
what is being returned to you so in this
case it is using this command
uh the azvm list which I just showed you
that lists all the information about our
virtual machines uh we're telling it
specifically to show details so this
will show additional details that by
default are hidden and the key here is
really this parameter that says query
because this allows us to use James path
to create the Json that is returned to
us James path is something that the
majority of class CLI is uh enable you
to use for like a query uh and it's very
very helpful it's actually the language
that you're supposed to be using I guess
D tool not necessarily language to go
and query Json information
so if I send this command here you'll
see I get a nice and lovely and easy to
read table with three columns name
provisioned and Power
this um
these columns are provided by here like
so I have a name column find the
property name assign it here provisioned
find the property provisioning State and
assign it to this column and then power
State and find that value and then put
it in power and then output table is
what puts it in this table but you could
easily do like depending on what you
need like if you remove the output table
you would have just Json returned but
it's simplified right because it's
filtered and then you could also have
like if you wanted to assign this to a
variable you could do T this tsv and
that removes the formatting and then you
see you just have these individuals and
this would be easier for you to assign
to a variable if you needed to or if you
needed to get this output and then sort
of redirect it to somewhere else like
this might be well more straightforward
for you as well but also understanding
how to manipulate when to manipulate oh
where do I save it to a table what do I
name these columns like how do I
actually find this information and
whatnot how do I query this information
is also something that you develop with
a Linux skill set now
there are more things that I could
probably do like a part two because this
one is getting a little long but uh
these are kind of like some Basics so
really the key is just very very coming
very very comfortable with the CLI the
way that uh any kind of service that you
want to interact with uh in Azure like
you'll know how to do it you may not
have things memorized but you kind of
have a feel for how acli works so you
kind of know how to get to it you just
need to know the specifics like actually
let's switch back to the screen because
I want to show you one last thing
another important thing whoops another
important thing here is to understand
how you can find help which is a very
big thing like bass and we'll have like
the Man pages which is short for manual
pages so if you do AZ help you'll see
that it'll tell us okay
um sort of there's like a bunch of
commands it's like essentially
documentation built into it right and if
you say all right you know you want to
work with azvm which is the virtual
machine command you can do Dash help
here and it'll give you a list of
commands and parameters that are
specific to the azvm and say I know that
I want to work with azv um I don't know
um let's say create
so if I do a z v m create a and then
then I don't really know what else I can
do here what options I can provide well
I can do Dash help append that to that
very end and all this help here is being
returned to me is specific to that
command itself right so again
just knowing how to work with them
becoming comfortable with one and
knowing how to find help and how to find
the options that you can and
can use will one comes with experience
but also just by trying these things and
Linux is all about that
um so anyway I hope this provides a
little bit more clarification of what it
means to hey I need a Linux kill set for
uh to get into cloud and whatnot it's
not hard and I find it extremely fun
becoming powerful and efficient with a
CLI will unlock many opportunities and
overall I just I feel like it's to me
it's fun I feel like cli's are like art
in some way anyway that's it for this
video I'll see the next one