hi everyone today we are going to be
talking about boot camps and if I
believe they are worth it and who they
actually are worth going through I'm not
100 anti-boot camp but I do have some
strong opinions in this space and with
all that being said hi I'm GPS and
welcome to a new video let's switch back
into the how to get a cloud job diagram
if you want a high resolution of this
diagram I think I price it at like ten
dollars or something like that or you
could just pause the video and take a
screenshot but if you want to support
the channel and help me avoid sponsors
and help me avoid talking about random
vpns and during the Middle videos uh go
and get yourself a copy of this diagram
so we'll talk about someone who's in
prereq land which is essentially where I
get a lot of these our bootcamps worth
of questions from
uh let's let's say we have a someone who
is making at the moment 60k in a
different field and they want to shift
into Cloud but they have a bunch of
factors maybe they have family maybe
they have parents that take care of
whatever it is where they can't make
less than 60k but they want to make the
shift into cloud and usually what I
recommend most people is do a year in a
support type role and upskill in that
year and then in two years you could be
over here in the cloud exposure land
which the majority of these roles you're
finding are going to be
60 60k and above but those entry level
Attack rules you know some of them can
be like Kev Tech shout out kevtech just
told me about I helped us roll in New
York City that's 150 000 base salary so
there are some of those fluke rules out
there but generally I would say
these entry-level Tech roles are
probably going to be around that or less
uh so if you have you know if you're
someone who for whatever reason is it
could be a bunch of factors can't go
through this the space here and you want
to accelerate through it I would say a
boot camp is worth it if you find a boot
camp that is
100 upfront and honest like you can pop
that they have publicly the amount that
it costs you don't have to go through
multiple uh like like Zoom calls or
anything like that like up front you can
see how much it costs that way you can
make you know sit down make your budget
see financially it's going to work for
you
two if they have a lot of public reviews
testimonials and things like that three
if they have their curriculum that's
public uh
I haven't found a boot camp that hits
all these things that I feel like I
would need to know before I could be
comfortable going through a boot camp
but I think you also don't have to
expect to get the best
content I don't I don't think boot camps
are worth it from the learning
perspective I think they are only worth
it from their connections that they can
bring in and if you you can essentially
put yourself through a three-month
program or yeah some I think the
majority of them are three to six months
three to six month program paying I
think I've seen anywhere from like 15
000 to up to thirty thousand dollars you
know paying that a money amount of money
uh putting yourself through through the
program
and you know you end up and they will
essentially guarantee you a job or they
have connections for so you can land
that job I think it's worth it there
I've yet to see a boot camp like that
which is why I overall just don't
generally enjoy them but I don't think
the instruction the content or anything
like that that the majority of them have
is any unique I think everything that
you need to learn you can essentially
learn on your own and we'll talk about
that a little bit
but
yeah if you if you can accelerate
through it pay this fee essentially
accelerate through it and then leverage
their connections to land a role then it
could be worth it if you can't stomach
the
the the year to two years again I say
two years Max but I realistically do
believe that people can get through this
phase in a year a year to two years in
in this phase of you know entry level
attack role and teaching yourself
for everyone else I really don't think
boot camps are worth it I don't see how
they don't have unique unique
uh curriculums they don't really have
unique ways of teaching or anything like
that but I think the the biggest one
that I
I can like the biggest point for me is
the earlier you can teach yourself how
to learn a new concept
the the better your the rest of your
career is going to develop into because
you know you you go to school or you you
go to a boot camp or whatever and
essentially you get your foot in the
door
but that's just like the first step
then when you need to go and you want to
go for a promotion you want to switch
into another role you want to search
companies you're gonna have to teach
yourself and throughout the entire time
you're gonna have to teach yourself as
well the other you learn how to do it
the the you know you're just going to be
better off
I think another big thing to kind of
keep in mind is that the the
fundamentals of cloud computing the
fundamentals of of Landing a role in
Cloud are so publicly available like
learner cloud is available but there's
also so many course makers out there so
many teachers out there who you know
have their courses for I want to say on
average less than a hundred dollars and
they have like professional experience
backing up uh the the content that they
are delivering
they and they're like much more
affordable they're much more at your
pace uh I mean the mentality is at your
pace and it's just so
publicly obvious what you need to learn
so really the hardest part is finding
the discipline and scheduling in that
time but again the earlier you can do
that the better off you are going to be
for the rest of your career
and we can't deny the the aspect of how
much money they cost
I think the cheapest one I did some
research on this but the cheapest one I
saw I seen was ten thousand and it was
for a three month Pro and a 90-day
program and it was essentially just
content no like job guarantee or
anything like that but ten thousand
dollars for Content that wasn't unique
for curriculum so aren't unique for I
can't really say on the instructors
because I didn't really see them
delivering anything
but everything is so publicly available
for her
for you that I just don't see how it's
worth it
instead of spending the money on
going because I have nothing against
spending money to learn but you can
spend it on a bunch of courses from
Individual course makers independent
course makers you could spend it on
subscriptions to things like a cloud
Guru or plural site or there's a bunch
of other academic platforms out there
you can
you know spend money on actually putting
you know paying for your your Azure
subscription like put yourself a 20
minute 20 minute a 20 budget every month
that is more than enough I I showed
everyone on the Stream
I think it was two three weeks ago that
my my Azure resume which is probably one
of the most the ones I get like one of
the most traffic because it's the
example in the video
is costing me like 11 a month uh I know
a year to run so putting in that money a
month is is
way more worth it than paying for
the the boot camp in my opinion
But ultimately it does come down to
whatever people want to do if you feel
like a boot camp is worth it then go for
it I just feel like learning
on your own pace tenfold just paste 10
full you you
put that money back into
other educational resources into your
own cloud accounts and subscriptions and
things like that and you're gonna be
good
but yeah that's how I feel about that
and
I'll see you in the I want to know your
opinion again this is all my opinion
um but leave it in the comments below
and I'll see in the next one