i don't know anything about cloud
security so i had to get a professional
uh but dave let's kick let's kick it off
by asking you what do you do now and
how long have you been doing it i
currently work as
a cloud threat detection engineer i did
a dog
um i've been there since march 2022 so
just about
four months now i think yeah so yeah
that's it what were you doing before
that so i was working in security
operations i was a threat analyst um
working
something you something you would uh
consider similar to a cell catalyst so
pretty much through like threat analysis
security operations and all of those
things
how long were you doing that for
i did that for about a year
and
about a year and uh
three four months
sorry from like an internship got my
first full-time job as a stock analyst
and then pivoted to another role where i
was working as a three analyst one got
promoted like after four months two
third analyst two so the whole the whole
experience was just about a little over
a year a year
three four five six months
so wait was that your first job in tech
my first job was an internship a
security internship so i got that like
right after like freshman year of
college um so i was doing the security
operations
basically efficient analysis uh did a
little bit of that was my first
introduction to azure so i did a little
bit of like azure security endpoint
security all of those things that was
kind of what gave me like my
introduction to security
freshman in college isn't that like
cause you're super young
isn't that like last year i was like
that was that was 20 so i started
freshman year 2019 and then
end of freshman year was 2020.
how did you land an internship in
security
as a freshman see that's a really good
question because it typically is hard to
land internships in general and to land
security internships specifically
after freshman year um so
i just saw so i was in like this
community um and i was seeing a bunch of
people just like getting internships it
was like big internships like google
microsoft i'll speak big companies it's
like i want to get an internship and
like i i i really like studied the
security industry and i realized that
um it's really hard to get into the
industry and one of the best ways is to
leverage internships and i was like if i
could get an internship my freshman year
then like i would have like if i could
get an internship my freshman year and
just do internships for the rest of the
four years i would have at least three
four years of experience by time i'm
graduating and like i wouldn't have the
issue of like i don't have experience so
i can't get a job so i was like i'm
going to do everything to get even
started even if it was not a security
internship if it's like a help desk job
that i could use to get experience i was
going to use that to leverage and get
like a more a better job so i was like
applying for any job and i was like
doing training like certification just
studying doing projects and
like it took me like over like 150
applications and like multiple like
field filled interviews because i sucked
at interviewing like i didn't know
anything about interviewing but like
when you feel a couple of times you
start realizing like what is necessary
to like pass those interviews and like
what employers are really looking for so
i kind of really studied the game
understood like what exactly employers
are looking for
their couple interviews filled with them
and then
when i got the interview opportunity for
that internship i was like
i gotta kill this one like i gotta get
this one this has to be the one uh study
really hard for it um did it the
interview
got the job and use that as leverage to
get my first full-time job after six
months
you turned a six-month internship into a
full-time job yeah and then you did that
for
a little bit over a year and now you're
at datadog yes
crazy i hope you know that like the
other day i found out actually how young
you are and i'm just like
how but okay so i get so i get it
you you were super dedicated your first
year like i gotta land an internship no
matter what and no matter where i start
which i feel like is a mindset that not
a lot of people have because they want
to go straight into
straight into class straight into
engineering software dev and they want
to skip everything else because i don't
know i feel like you know support roles
get uh maybe like a bad rep or something
like that but i feel like they close
themselves off to a lot because if you
put in a good year at like you know any
kind of entry-level job that can take
you
anywhere
i would agree i think like especially
now with
the um availability of like cloud
support roles for aws azure or gcp i
think
that is a really good entryway into like
cyber security because like you get to
like see a lot of things like and like
work with a lot of like services
technologies and when you really
understand those services
and like those technologies or the cloud
environment in depth it really makes the
security aspect a lot easier because
like you understand the fundamental like
architecture administration all of that
stuff and like figuring out like how an
attacker would exploit something in that
thing would be easier for you because
you know how everything works about it
and then you can okay this is how i can
secure this or this is how i can detect
against this particular thing i think
like right now with the way like you can
easily just like do a bunch of projects
future skills and land a cloud support
role that could be a really good way for
people to like transition into cloud
security yeah i feel the same way i feel
like it's your entry level to to then
step into what other other discipline
and i guess that makes sense because i'm
thinking about me like i'm trying to
learn more about security and i guess if
i sort of shaped it around like a niche
that i'm good at so i use a lot of like
serverless technologies if i might if my
next step was like all right how do i
secure these things that i work with
every single day i feel like that's
easier than just going like completely
oh first step like broad level security
yeah right like approaching it from
something that i'm already familiar with
i like that i'm gonna give that a try
yeah so you you mentioned certifications
what was like when you were applying for
internships what certifications did you
already have and then which ones do you
have now and which ones do you think
actually matter yeah so when i was
applying for internships so the first
one i got was the comptia applause right
pretty generic right um but like for me
it was like
i needed to do that certification like i
just i needed to go through that process
because i failed my first attempt so i
needed to go through that process of
failing it and like getting those
certifications going going through like
that great of like really studying and
trying to pass a certification for
everything else to like just
fall in line because that was like what
like it wasn't even really the
certification it was just like the
process of like
studying and just like really like
getting down the methodology of like
learning concepts and like building
those skills that like you know built
the foundation for everything else so
like just that process of like studying
so i got the a plus around like um june
or july um
in 20 2020 and then i got the network
plus like 30 days after so like it just
took me 30 days to get another applause
like non-stop like i was right into it
and this was like during the pandemic
right so like i lost my job like
december of the previous year and i was
like i was like i was like i was mad
i was like pretty depressed i was like i
have to find something and it wasn't
really about the money right it was more
about like
i i have to start working because i i
just didn't feel comfortable with like
not working and i was like i'm
passionate about cyber security i want
to get the experience i want to get even
it's like a help desk job i was like the
a plus is a good way to start like as a
foundation for everything like it didn't
matter if i didn't get a cyber security
job so i was like a plus then i realized
like
a lot of everything is like really
surrounded around networking like
whether you're like you're doing cloud
or security like networking is like
central to all of these things so
i was like network plus next thing right
and that covered like the networking
aspect for me like that's that was like
the foundation for the rest of my career
so
at the time i actually got my internship
i so i was i had plus the a plus
i was studying for the network plus when
i was interviewing
for the internship
and i just passed the number plus right
after i got the offer for the internship
and then literally my first day of my
internship like one of my senior
engineers like gave me a security plus
textbook it was like hey this is all you
need to pass the security plus go study
this and go take a security plus and
like i took that book write it cover to
cover and like took the security plus
like three months after so that was like
those were my first couple of
certifications like how they played out
afterwards um
i did
whatever certification i do did i do i
just started doing a bunch of training
honestly after that because i was like i
didn't just want to like just get
certifications i was getting the skills
but like um i really wanted to start
doing like hands-on training so i spent
a lot of time doing that then i got like
the azure fundamentals i got the splunk
core user because i wanted to join a
company that was business splunk and i
felt like if i had a splunk
certification that would help me
understand splunk better and just be
more marketable with the skill
that did the tscy
zip loss which is a cyber security
analyst one
did aws cloud practitioner um
linux fundamentals i know you did that
one
and most recently actually in january i
did
the blue team level one which was like a
24-hour uh security incident response
certification and
for me
thati don't want to say like that was one
that really mattered because i don't
want to discount like the
level of effort and like the impact
those other certifications had in my
career
but that particular certification was
if i were to do all over again i'll
probably just do just that one or maybe
the network plus because that's that's
important
but that certification especially for if
you want to get into like security
operations
it's like the best thing i can recommend
for you because it covers everything and
it's hands-on um i know i i did i had a
tweet recently about like hands-on like
cloud certifications and how they're
valuable it's kind of it was it covered
everything that i would want for a
security operation certification that
would like be necessary for me to get a
security analyst job and um that one is
that's the one all right everyone so
in terms of certifications that's what
you would recommend so if someone was
like trying to get into security you
would say
put a lot more effort into like would
you say blue team level one all right
and said not that the other ones don't
matter and i guess it depends on where
everyone's at cause like if someone is
completely new to tech i could see how
the a plus is useful
but i'm gonna assume that people here
are interested in security so that's a
good a good one to start you also
mentioned like doing labs and projects
and trainings and things that aren't
necessarily tied to certifications can
you is there any like specific projects
that stand out to you that you think
people can try and like maybe put on
their resume is github important when it
comes to
building a portfolio or like standing
out for for jobs and security yeah so
that's a packed question um but like
you know there were several things so
personally for me it was my
cybersecurity homeland project which to
this day is number one if you do a
google search for cybersecurity home lab
it's number one on google search it's
been that way for about a year
so um that was like the biggest project
that had like the most impact on like my
entire career and like in a way was part
of like how i got a data dog now i could
tell that story later um but that was
like the biggest project because i spent
so much time on that project like it
took me months because i had to do it
like three times so i had to do it i had
to figure out
how i wanted the project to be then i
had to document it on my blog and i had
to do a video for it like a video series
for it so i did it three three times
but um it had the most impact on like
like building my knowledge and like
really like uh in like uh the core
security concepts and like really
building my skills um in general um but
like it wouldn't be the same for
everyone right if you're doing like
if you're for example like that my
experience has been like security
operations if you're going into like
pentesting like which is like the
offensive side where you're like hacking
stuff like you you might have a
different project like your project
might be like building a
offensive security tool like python and
that would be like where like your
github would matter because like that
would be where you install the code but
like if you're doing something like that
project i did it might not be github it
might be like your blog or like your
youtube channel or something else so
like it really depends on like what
you're interested in in security and if
it was a cloud security project it would
be different right like you'd have video
you might even have like a github repo
for like some code that you use or like
you know maybe you use like terraform
for the environment so like it really
depends on like you know what project
you work in but i think
um especially when you're starting out
like it's usually that one like project
or that one thing or just a couple of
things that you put so much time and
effort into so i'd say find something
find a problem that you think is like
something that
is going to help you learn multiple
skills or even like a specific skill and
go solve that problem
and for me it was like
i didn't find i didn't see
there were so many uh cyber security
home lab project out there but nothing
was really consolidated and really like
something probably my i had i was like
i'm gonna go build this and i built it
and like it's helped like tons of people
like i got people telling like you know
this project really helped me like when
i was trying to get a security job stuff
like that so and it doesn't matter it
doesn't have to be cybersecurity home
lab it could be anything right whether
you're interested in like you know
security operations system response
pentestin find a problem solve it and
document it and share it like let people
see it like flaunt it everywhere
i love that i'll add that project to the
to the description the link there so
people can check that out i think
especially well i think in all areas of
tech but being able to
communicate i think especially in
security
uh is like a massive
massive ability and skill and i think um
one thing someone told me who i can't
remember what area of security they're
in but they were they were saying
every time when a massive company has
some sort of hack there are always like
analysis what are they called like the
next day i forget there's a specific
name about like yeah incident and
they'll do reports and stuff like right
so they were telling me like if you
really wanted to sort of become you kind
of kind of like reverse engineer it like
you go grab the report analyze it and
then sort of explain it in your own ways
but then you're going to find yourself
going down like a bunch of rabbit holes
because in order to like explain things
in a concise way like those reports are
you got to really know what you're
talking about yeah so that might be
another recommendation for people like
go check out these reports that come out
because hacks happen what every day
yeah
every second go go you know figure this
out like for example i tell people
who want to learn how to build stuff in
the cloud like go find the architecture
diagrams and build them out be able to
speak to them because a lot of the stuff
is already out there you don't really
have to like
invent or come up with some new original
idea a lot of it is just like kind of
like repetition and things that are done
differently maybe it's a different
service or things like that so there are
a couple ideas for people who are trying
to get into get a little bit more
hands-on with security i want to talk
about datadog what was so i want to talk
about how you got there
and also what the interview process was
like yeah yeah
so yeah it's it's quite the story um so
it started from
uh last year
um
august so this at this time i was
sharing like all of my projects i was
working on on twitter so i shared on
twitter instagram youtube like i was
everywhere like showing everything i was
working on um so
and then you know people follow me and
all of that like comment my stuff and
then my manager um he had connected with
me on twitter and he was like really
impressed with the project i was working
on and it's like you know there could
there could be a potential internship
opportunity on their team um for that
summer if um i was interested and then
um i was like at that point i actually i
had two offers so i had one offer for my
last job for the three analyst position
and i had to offer from intel for
security engineering position i was
actually like trying to like figure out
which one i wanted to
take a big name right there yeah so um
but i was like you know like i i just i
i eventually accepted the offer for my
um last position and then um but i was
like uh let's definitely like you know
keep in touch you know just for just for
future purposes so i connected with him
on linkedin and like you know we didn't
have any conversations for like like
like about six months and i saw him so i
then like six months later i was at my
job right you know i had you know gonna
promote it to like three hours two and i
was like i really want to get into cloud
security and at this time i did a video
on my channel to share my goals and my
plans like how i was going to transition
to cloud security by the end of 2022
like everything i was going to do
and then i started talking about cloud
security just doing projects and like
stuff like that um and then he had
posted a position about a security
engineering position like for like one
of their teams um um on linkedin and um
i was like i reached out to him i was
like hey like um i'd like to have a
conversation about this position it's
like yeah sure we had we had a zoom call
and we talked but i wasn't really a good
fit for that position so i actually just
thought it was like you know i don't
think i have the skills for this
position but it was like there's
actually another position coming up
that i think he thought i would be a
better fit for so like just sent me a
resume so i sent my resume and like um
after for a while there's like there was
like some hiring like um things going on
so like um i didn't really the the
higher there was like a hiring phrase or
something like that uh don't quote me on
that because i'm not exactly sure what
happened yeah but you know um so my my
resume was just kind of hanging there
for a while uh but then like after a
while he like just reached out okay like
you're gonna get like a recruiter reach
out to you so it's in january so the
whole process kicked up in january and
so i got the recruiter call had a
conversation um then they set me up for
like a loop interview so like um like it
was like four interviews back to back
um and
for me like it was
the only interview that i've done
actually not the only one but one of the
only interviews i've done that actually
made sense in the sense that you know
like not people just asking you
questions about oh what is like um you
know cia or stuff like that like be
asking you questions that actually
relates to
what you're going to be doing in your
job and there was also like a threat
modeling one which is really really cool
like
like just
walking through a an attack scenario
against the cloud environment and like
how you would like you know defend
against that or how you like compromise
the cloud environment so like it just
made sense because that's like what i do
on a day-to-day basis so i've had an
interview with my director so really
great interview process um
really uh challenging the process though
but um the whole process went by and
like after like a week got the offer and
then started in in march um that's kind
of the whole story yeah now it's been
four months so your goal was to get to
get into cloud security by the end of
this year and you like smash it like the
first month like literally yeah which is
that's that's freaking awesome um
oh i know i know
are you still at wgu are you still doing
wgujust paid my tuition
after like six months of like not being
in school
i took a break yeah which is great about
so i get a lot of questions about the
wgu cloud because they have that with
tracks for aws and azure and i get a lot
of questions about the azure curriculum
i i'm a fan of wgu i was considering
going back if i had more time i don't
know how you do dude how do you work
full time we'll talk about that in a
little bit but
but and i know now you're mentioning
that you went on a break but i'm curious
about
like your experience with wgu and what's
your opinion on the but you've changed
programs right like yeah you started did
you start in security
i started in network operational
security which is different from the
cyber security path
and then i switched to the cloud program
in december i was supposed to start that
in january when i took my break but it
didn't eventually happen but before
starting back up this month i switched
to the i.t program because i'm just
trying to finish it as fast as possible
interesting so like what's your opinion
on on
getting you just wanted to get the
degree because you started already or
like what's what's the mindset around
that so like i was i was going to do the
cloud program because i was like you
know i'm trying to get into cloud i was
trying to get into cloud at that time i
was like the certification is the
program is perfect for like building
those skills and like doing those
projects and certifications but now it's
like i'm in cloud i just want to get the
degree and like focus on my job
interesting so
but you don't have plans to like drop
just drop it how many of how much time
do you have left so
it depends yeah because i know with wgu
it's like as much as you can take on
i've seen people fly through some of
these programs but i plan to finish it
in the next six months
everything every day how many what is it
credits like do you have no what is it
like uh
quitting uh units yeah how many credit
unions you have left i think about 24
but like i'm like 63 done okay so all
right that's not correct because i see
these people shove like the whole thing
in six months and i was like oh my
goodness i mean i guess it's it's doable
if like you have the motivation and
stuff like that but that leads me to to
my last question is
how do you because then you you're doing
videos like every week now i think like
you're and you have two channels you got
your discord because you ever saw that
your like academy dedicated channel
where you do like just strictly
tutorials which which i'm also going to
link because i think those labs are
fantastic
so you're balancing
full-time work
full like i consider it full-time
youtube because just because it's one
video it doesn't mean like you only do
it like
once a day like working on videos is
like an everyday thing
um
and then everything else outside of work
because i know you're like big into
fitness and that you're you're obviously
you're traveling here and stuff like
that so
let's like give everyone your best uh i
guess tips for
managing time and how do you become so
disciplined
yeah i just i mean for me just um
it's just about like
you know
i don't want to sound like cliche i
sound like like a motivational speaker
like all the cliche things but i mean
just about like just um
like prioritization um so like at every
point in like
every stage in life i have like specific
priorities right like for the last six
months school was not my priority so i
was for focusing like um my work my job
you know and like just you know
understanding like certain concepts in
relation to like cloud security and like
how that applies to like my job and
everything like that um so like that was
not a priority at that time um so for me
it's just like
priorities and like planning your life
and this might be where you say in like
sprints
so it's like it's something i started
doing recently so basically
like every three months or every four
months is a sprint where you like focus
on like specific things that you really
want to achieve and like
like you know smart goals right so goals
that are like clearly defined and
achievable
um and then they have like a
a pretty reasonable timeline so like
first let's say first four months i want
to get my solutions architect
certification right that's a reasonable
goal to have you know for the first four
months and alongside that i'm going to
be focusing on like
one class per month in wg or one class
every two months right um just have
those clearly defined goals and just
like stick to them and then like be also
like be flexible with your goals um like
if there's something that you can't
achieve like
feel free to like spread out your goals
longer um but like also just really try
to be dedicated and cut out
as many distractions as possible i had a
period in my life where i didn't have
social media for six months and like it
was like it helped me get so much done
like i was like i i was able to i was
able to get like my wgu program like at
least like almost half of it done in
that period of time um started getting
into fitness at that time so if if it
means like cutting cutting out certain
things for a specific period of time so
you have more time to do what really
matters like in the other it would like
those things like you can always get
those things back like i could always
get my social media back like eventually
like you know for me like of course
youtube is like a big priority but like
if i have to like reduce like my my
content like to like maybe once every
two weeks or once every three weeks like
i'll do that so i can focus in school so
like just prioritizing what matters and
like you know cut out distractions um
and just like just try to be disciplined
like it's really hard to like it's
really hard to like be disciplined
especially when you have so many things
you're doing um but i think if you like
just have that passion that drive um and
like you're a hustler like you know like
you can just like like thug it out and
just like get things done um and another
thing to just like
um i don't know if it's like
scientifically proven but like
if you like like motivation to do stuff
just like start going to the gym like it
just really pushes you to like
especially when you like you know make
prs or like just like do harsh stuff
like it really just like pushes you
mentally to just be able to like have
like grit to like go through like really
like you know difficult periods where
you have so much going on but you know
like at the end of it like you just come
out a lot more fulfilled so all of those
things combined is what really helps me
um and like and also
as much as possible try to sleep um
it might be like you might feel like oh
like because i'm doing all these things
like i'm gonna only sleep like two hours
a day like sleep when you're dead yeah
like it's not gonna work like i i found
out the hard way getting like good seven
six seven hours of sleep can really help
you be productive but the key to being
productive is like actually doing work
when you're supposed to work so like if
you're working like don't like
don't be on your phone yeah like don't
like contact switch like spend that one
hour
focus in the like that's that task get
it done and move on to the next thing
that way like you can be really
productive so
cut out distractions probably prioritize
um you know start going to the gym and
sleep well and eat well
there you go all these things are like
non-tech related and and i think we tend
to focus so much on like bullet points
on a resume or like i need to learn
kubernetes and then tomorrow i need to
learn this and this and that and we
forget that our ability to do that is
because we're humans and you know what
makes us humans is all these things like
you mentioned eat well
sleep well uh you know exercise move
frequently and have i'm sure i'm
assuming you have a morning routine
yeah sort of yeah i think that's super
important like i want one like biggest
tip for me is like start your day but
don't immediately make it about work
like i don't start work work until like
nine in the morning but i'm up by seven
so there's two hours it's just
like i'm my priority
i think that's important too man you
give so much great advice it's awesome
i'm gonna put all your links in the
description um
and any any last words you want to share
this video is going to be hella long but
i think people are going to like this so
but any last words you want to share
with people who want to get into i guess
tech in general and like security yeah i
always like to tell people this um i
started like the last like podcast i was
featured on like especially for people
like me if you're yelling you know maybe
from like a minority group or um like
whatever it is like there's there are no
like barriers to like breaking into tech
whatever it is you want to do like cyber
security cloud like
devops whatever it is you want to get
into like there are no barriers like
your age is not a barrier like i got
into this like when i was 18 like and it
never stopped me from like you know
working in great positions earning you
know great salaries so like don't ever
put any limitations on yourself for the
possibilities of what you can do like
you know getting into the industry like
as a freshman like or even like right
after right out of high school like the
only limitation to like your progress
and to like your
entry into tech is yourself and like
you're you can you only go as far as
like whatever
uh limits you set for yourself so like
there are no you know barriers or there
are no like limitations like just like
put into work right and um you know
be consistent and like you eventually
like get what you want to get so
perfect yeah i think the way we think of
ourselves is really the only limit that
we have
uh all right thank you so much man we
could go on for like a really long time
but whenever you're back i'm gonna
interview you every time you come to new
york because i know you come here like
what every
every quarter and then we'll like we'll
have like a playlist or something going
on but that would be awesome but i
appreciate this and have all his links
in the description peace out everyone