already so I'm going to show you how I
take notes but before I show you I want
you to keep two things in mind I think
studying from other people's notes is a
massive waste of time and if anything it
makes the process more confusing
understand that the process of making
notes is synthesizing information in
that process of synthesizing is where
you learn you take the I don't know 10
pages you synthesize it down to
something smaller one page something
like that but you understand it because
you went through the material and you
went and you wrote up the notes that
work for you if you try to go grab
someone else's notes you're missing all
the context from where they grab the
notes from so I think is a poor way of
studying also what works for me won't
necessarily work for you what works for
someone else will necessarily work for
you so if there's something here that
you've seen that feels valuable but it
doesn't work for you it doesn't mean
that you don't know how to study it just
means that this might not work for you
okay so keep that in mind all right so
there are essentially three things that
I use I use excally draw for diagrams I
use notion for absolutely everything
text based where I'm writing things down
and I also use pen and paper I guess
journals and like you know handwriting
stuff like that okay
uh so I'll use this how Linux works as
an example I've been writing down some
notes on a book that I am reading and it
is called
uh wait let me see where it is I have to
bring it up how Linux works this one
here and right I usually have this open
on one side like this let me move this
here and one side like this and then
I'll have my notion open on the left
side and as you can see I have a page
depending on it really depends on how I
wanted to break it down right so I
wanted to go through this first chapter
for example the picture and then just
take some stuff from here and just
really synthesize some stuff in here so
I kind of created a sub page for each
one of these and there's notes in here
uh it I really don't have exactly a hard
line as to like this is a division this
is a title this is I need another page
for this I don't it's kind of just as I
go I like the flexibility of notion
because I can just you know do
oh I want to make a H1 title oh I need
an H2 title I can you know kind of put
anything in there too but these are
really quick bullet points I don't try
to write full on essays or blog posts or
anything these are just quick ideas for
me to grab from the text and later on
when I read it again I can understand it
better because I wrote down notes okay
I read stuff
three four five times again and again
and again I'll write notes and again
because I I am just terrible I don't
know if I'm terrible it's just the way
that my brain works I have to reread
things multiple times in order to really
understand the idea in order to
understand the idea to the level that I
want to be able to understand it so that
is a key for me so this one this is why
this is a chapter but it's taken me four
or five days to grab all the notes that
I wanted to uh but yeah again I have
individual pages so I have just sort of
this one page and then individual pages
in here I have more about the file
system in here I have more about uh
devices and I'll I'll have screenshots
of all those kinds of things right but
very text based okay
lately what I've been doing is all right
once I'm done with like the source
material you know I I've read through
this book I read through a couple blog
posts I watch a couple videos and then I
kind of Gap all my notes that I have
inside of notion I've been experimenting
and it's been working very well actually
for me is to use visual diagrams to
further build out and synthesize the
information for myself and I think this
is also a great way for me to improve my
content because in the last video that I
did talking about elasticity versus
scalability me being able to explain
something through a diagram was a lot
easier for me to make my idea come
across than just using text or just
using just speaking straight here I
think it's a fantastic accessory so I've
been sort of experimenting with that and
I've already realized that this is a way
better way for me to take notes and it
takes more time but it's way worth it I
already have so many additional ideas
that are coming out of these notes for
things that I want to learn and want to
talk about later on
but for example if we go to I have the
whole the whole thing here so what I
ended up doing is just coming into
Escalade draw and essentially each one
of those notion Pages turns into one of
these in like high level titles I have
one two three four and five and those
you can see correspond to these one two
three four and five pages here as well
and we're gonna zoom in here right so I
have like the high level of components
and some of these notes are actually
just blatantly taken from my notion page
like if we go to here we'll see like
okay we have oh Linux system has three
main levels well how do I represent that
visually well here we go here at three
main levels and then I added my notes
there also like oh when I'm talking
about the the kernel then I have like
process management management and that
is sort of similar to the information
that I put in where we talk about the
kernel I think we're talking about the
kernel in here too yeah and here so
Process Management memory management a
whole bunch of other things in here as
well and you get the idea I grabbed
these notes that I wrote down and I kind
of speak them and as I speak them I
write them through this this diagram and
it ends up looking a lot like this now
you're I'm probably not gonna be able to
do notes like this for every single
thing that I want to study but I just
thought it was something that was gonna
be because I make this this talk that
I'm doing about how Linux Works be a lot
better so it is something that's
becoming very useful for me but that's
what I use I highly recommend ocean I
highly recommend this Cali draw I use
excally drop rust so I pay six dollars a
month for that I use notion the pro I
paid yearly I think it was over I think
100 or something like that but since
these are these tools are that I use
every single day I would more than
happily pay double the price for them
because they really have changed my life
like I've done a couple of other things
uh I look a lot of my architecture
diagrams I also do an excali draw and
it's just worth it I love it I have an
affiliate code for notion if you want to
sign up for it I get a little bit of a
commission off of it
um but if you can also get a free
account there are some limitations I
believe to the free account but if you
want to pay for a paid one you can use
my affiliate code and that contributes
to continue the efforts on making this
YouTube Channel free
all right
if you want to learn more about how
Linux Works check out my talk I'll have
a link for you to register in the
description I will see you in the next
video